i could challenge him to a duel and then not show up .
i told him to knock at your gate and for the life of me could not get him to do it .
a friend!
cruel ,  cruel death killed her .
oh ,  be quiet .
to pay five dollars, five, i wouldn’t farm it, and it won’t yield either to norway or the poles a worse rate if it should it be sold in payment.
since i was so drawn to studying things like logic ,  grammar ,  geometry ,  and astronomy ,  i let my control of the government slide a bit ,  being too wrapped up in my occult books .
you must be mistaking me for someone else ,  sir .
why, isn’t this better now than groaning for love?
if i could colonize this island ,  my lord— he’d cultivate weeds on it .
what a strange drowsiness possesses them !
if you want to see your deceiver ,  then look at me .
little again !
if he agrees ,  great .
i remember him well ,  and i remember him worthy of your praise .
there's more that depends on this ring than its value.
hortensio ,  have you come to break up the fight ?
no ,  come on ,  don’t make me play a woman .
yes, and this.
what ,  nurse ,  i say !
all my pretty ones ?
she's dead, pitiful day!
forgive us our sins!
if i had as many sons as i have hairs ,  i would not wish them to a fairer death .
indeed ,  time has a strange disposition but men may interpret things in whatever way they like ,  far from the purpose of the things themselves .
yes ,  you’re speaking very well .
well; then i shall see you again?
o ,  from this time forth ,  my thoughts be bloody ,  or be worth nothing !
he is ,  because he told antonius to tell you he’d be there tomorrow .
quiet !
what did you say?
he may recover yet .
a crown was offered to him ,  and he pushed it away with the back of his hand ,  like this—and then the people started shouting .
not i; unless the breath of heartsick groans, like a mist wraps me up and hides me from the search of eyes.
because you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother would even infect my mouth, i forgive your worst fault, all of them, and require my dukedom from you, which i know you must restore to me by necessity.
disgusting slave, in which any type of goodness won’t take hold, being capable of every evil!
it cannot be.
you lie .
what other news ?
alas ,  iago ,  my lord has accused her of being a prostitute ,  thrown such angry and horrible words at her ,  as true hearts cannot bear .
what if, when i am laid in the tomb, i wake up before the time that romeo is supposed to come and get me?
what if her eyes were there ,  they in her head ?
you’re wrong to kill me for loving you .
didn’t i buckle this well ?
revenges burn in them, because their dear causes would excite a dead man to the flowing of blood and the grim alarm.
where did he get wine ?
this is some cat's gift, and i must take out the work?
later ,  in a better world than this ,  i’d love to get to know you .
what’s that music ?
you are a council member: if you can command these elements to be silent, and make this present storm more peaceful, we won’t need to work the ropes anymore.
but there’s reason for me to look more closely at this schoolmaster .
most noble antony !
according to the laws of war ,  you didn’t have to fight a stranger .
why is he dead ?
if we are slated to die ,  the fewer ,  the better for our country ,  and if we’re slated to live ,  the fewer men ,  the greater the share of honor for each of us .
what does he say ?
lysander riddles very prettily .
how should i know your true love from another one ?
listen to me: you shall not go.
speak ,  my fair one ,  and speak fairly ,  i beg you .
did heaven look on and would not take their side?
no ,  it’s dreadfully steep .
may sweet repose and rest come to your heart such as that is within my breast !
you saw eternity in my lips and eyes ,  and happiness in the arch of my eyebrows .
but i can’t be too obvious about being on your side without risking the life of your stepbrother ,  young george .
alas, then she is drowned?
and in this way ,  you have explained it very well .
i think nothing ,  my lord .
that’s what the bill says .
i am sorry that you cannot stay.
i honor him for being brave .
sweet portia ,  if you knew to whom i gave the ring ,  if you knew for whom i gave the ring ,  and would think about for what i gave the ring ,  and how unwillingly i let the ring go ,  when nothing would be accepted but the ring ,  you would decrease the strength of your anger .
o anything of nothing first create !
he can’t possibly be such a monster— and i’m sure he isn’t .
step aside and hide yourself a little while, he will recover right away.
why ,  sweetheart ?
ladies ,  you’re dropping bread from the heavens to starving people .
laugh at the power of other men ,  because nobody born from a woman will ever harm macbeth .
stay and tell me more .
my spirit has been as proud as each of yours ,  my courage as great ,  and my reason perhaps even better suited to bandy words back and forth and exchange frown for frown .
the enemy comes on in a show full of noble daring; their bloody sign of battle is hung out, and something has to be done immediately.
o, i have lost my reputation!
chorus off - stage: bow ,  wow !
well ,  aren’t you a good man ?
whoever he is that, in this disgusting event, has tricked your daughter of herself like this, and you of her, the bloody book of law you shall read yourself to the bitter letter of it as you see fit.
here he is .
our day is gone; come clouds ,  dews ,  and dangers; our deeds are done !
i beg you, stay seated.
i’ll vouch for grumio .
my creditors are getting mean .
cousin hamlet ,  you know the wager ?
and he had a chain that once belonged to you hanging around his neck .
come back to me again, and bring me word about what he says to you.
i know him to be valiant .
it would make him curse the heavens and be damned to hell .
i have done nothing except to protect you, protect you, my dear one, you, my daughter, who doesn’t know what you are, not knowing where i come from or that i better than prospero, master of a full, poor dwelling, and your not so proud father.
well then ,  he’s god’s soldier now !
but ,  really ,  what’s going on ,  clarence ?
hmm ,  let me see:
that’s true ,  my good boy . —come on ,  take us to that hut .
i am the son of marcus cato !
sir, it’s your brother, cassius, at the door, who wants to see you.
out, and alas!
there’s more to this ring than its cash value .
what, man!
they give such comfort as lusty young men feel when spring appears with all the flowers and warmth after a long ,  cold winter ,  even such delight among fresh female flower buds shall you this night find at my house; hear all ,  all see ,  and like her most whose worth shall be the most .
perhaps you have learned it without book .
sit down; because you must now know more.
therefore ,  depart ,  and leave him here with me .
please ,  no man leave ,  except i alone ,  until antony has spoken .
lord!
don’t you have any word of joy ?
a lover would have to be weepier ,  of course .
that’s enough for the senate .
the mousetrap .
the crowd calls him lord ,  and ,  as the world were just beginning now ,  old history forgotten ,  customs not known ,  they certify and prop up every word ,  they cry  “ we choose !
i can’t believe my sister would neglect her obligations in any way .
i have begun to nurture your career ,  and will labor to make the most of yourself .
wife ,  we were just thinking ourselves blessed that god had given us this only child ,  but now i see that this one is one too many ,  and that we are cursed in having her .
hello ,  sir .
you’re rubbing salt in his wounds when you should be applying bandages .
i am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter and the moor are now making a satan.
goodbye ,  my desdemona .
we shall know by this fellow.
you killed this king ,  didn’t you ?
we cannot fight for love as men can .
antonio’s a good man .
he and lepidus are at caesar's house.
moonshine and lion are left to bury the dead .
these times of pain are bad times for romance .
stop!
stay ,  then .
i gave her such a one; it was my first gift.
no ,  i assure you; the wall is down that parted their fathers .
and it’s very much lamented, brutus, that you don’t have any mirrors that will let you see your own hidden worthiness, any mirrors that you might let you see your shadow.
a flatterer's would not, although they do appear as huge as high olympus.
she that makes dainty and shy, she, i'll swear has corns!
my lord ,  my lord— i don’t want to hear any more about it .
why doesn’t then make our eyelids close?
love ,  and be friends as two such men should be ,  because i am older ,  i'm sure ,  than you .
exceedingly, my lord, it is very sultry, i can’t tell how.
why, he drinks your dane dead drunk easily; he doesn’t even sweat to defeat your german; he makes your hollander vomit before the next round can be poured.
honestly ,  nerissa ,  my little body is weary of this great world .
that was my lady's voice .
oh, me!
stand ,  oh !
mine ,  sir .
why there ,  there ,  there ,  there !
your misery will make them sharp and piercing like mine .
you shall be my lieutenant, monster, or my main officer.
and what if they won’t go ?
he'll watch the clock all night if drink doesn’t rock his cradle .
if so ,  you’d be buying them to sell again .
it’s a deal .
yes ,  look ,  it’s true that children are punished for the sins of their fathers .
i can only think that desdemona's honest.
you don’t ?
not a word from me .
everything’s fine ,  now ,  sweetheart .
why ,  by making him incapable of othello's place; knocking his brains out .
o ,  blood ,  iago ,  blood !
give me your hand; do you come from old bellario?
goodbye ,  i'll be a better talker by dinner .
you say you don’t know what the lady thinks about this.
wise and graceful as the earth is wonderful and divine .
have you played me?
i don’t think so !
you can have what you want .
o most pernicious woman!
swear ?
eyes without feeling, feeling without sight, ears without hands or eyes, smelling without them all, or a sickly part of one true sense couldn’t act like this without a conscious thought.
i’ve been informed by certain sources i can’t disclose that your younger brother orlando plans to fight me in disguise .
why do you look like a frightened goose ?
introduce yourself to them, and bring them in.
here's some poison wine still left.
good - night; and better health attend his majesty !
why, what an ass i am!
oh sweet mistress ,  speak !
stand aside.
for three months ,  hmmm .
who are they that do play it ?
ensign ,  go with them; you know the place best .
revenge it like a man .
without doubt i’ve heard that .
pray god, your voice, like a an unused gold coin, can’t be cracked within the ring.
here he is ,  here he is .
oh ,  here comes the storm again .
look ,  here comes the fool .
first thing in the morning ,  see that you deliver it to my lord and father .
argh!
and what's the news, good cousin lodovico?
welcome from mantua.
you make your knife sharp ,  not on the sole of your shoe ,  but on your soul ,  harsh jew ,  but no metal can ,  no ,  not the hangman's axe ,  be sharpened to half the sharpness of your sharp hate .
for your three thousand dollars ,  here are six .
there’s not a man in all athens able to play pyramus but he.
your sister's drowned ,  laertes .
it is he .
be patient with him, brutus; it’s the way he is.
oh, how fitting it is that that vile name should perish on my sword!
oh ,  he’s good at bending words around !
it’s torture, and not mercy.
what, good lord, boy!
caesar and he are better friends than ever .
sir ,  he told me quite bluntly that he didn’t feel like it .
by mary, heaven forbid!
is your other mouth calling my name ?
how are you ,  my lord !
a substitute shines as brightly as a king until a king is back, and then the substitute’s condition drains away, as an inland brook does into the river of waters.
look how shapely your legs are .
i’ll hide myself behind the curtain so i can hear what happens ,  i’ll guarantee she'll set him straight .
was it mine ?
my heart ,  which dried out with grief ,  will surely break apart into a powder ,  and that will be the end of my disgusting mind .
no duke of spineless burgundy can take this treasure of a girl from me now . —say goodbye to them ,  cordelia ,  even though they’ve been unkind to you .
their messengers are ready ,  waiting to deliver our response in these matters .
well ,  no ,  not literally .
why ,  how could she have been murdered ?
ah ,  ladies ,  ladies !
murder!
i hope we’ve corrected that fault pretty well in our company ,  sir .
that's the dog's name .
but in my terms of honor i hold back ,  and will make no reconciliation until ,  by some elder masters of known honor ,  i have a voice and precedent of peace to keep my name unbloody .
give me my sin again.
how are you ,  my lord ?
what, is he angry?
i won’t .
you told me they snuck into this forest ,  and i’m here and wander within this forest ,  because i cannot meet hermia .
sweet flowers for a sweet girl .
we’ll listen to him .
he has, and many more just like him that i know the worthless age dotes on, are only part of a craze and have the outward appearance of style, a kind of swollen collection, which carries them through and through the most airless opinions and only blows them to their real experience when the bubbles are burst.
but i have a legitimate son a few years older than this one ,  and i don’t love him any more than i love my bastard .
now ,  my sweet lord ,  you know how much i like you .
go ahead; go; provide your money.
o dardanius!
he bears himself like a portly gentleman; and ,  to say truth ,  verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well - governed youth .
it’s the smartest partition i’ve ever heard speak ,  my lord .
keep going ,  keep going ,  or i’ll declare myself the winner .
he is ,  my lord ,  and safe in leicester ,  where ,  if you’d like ,  we can retreat to .
o, there are actors that i have seen perform and heard others praise, and highly too, not to speak too harshly, that, having neither the accent of christians, nor the walk of a christian, a pagan, or a man, have so strutted and yelled that i have thought some of nature's hired help had made them and not made them well, they imitated mankind so dreadfully.
no ,  sir .
have my brother - in - law’s troops been mobilized ?
show us the way .
so you’ll bring the necklace to her yourself ?
then music is sounds as the trumpets when true subjects bow to a new-crowned king; music is those sweet sounds at sunrise that creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear and summon him to marriage.
sweet sir andrew !
but what about cicero ?
how is it with her?
and i won’t be there either . —edmund ,  i’m told you’ve acted like a true son to your father .
talkers aren’t good doers .
besides ,  it’s might be interpreted as silly ,  because someone says  " break up the senate until another time ,  when caesar's wife shall have better dreams .
let them last forever .
mistress!
thirsty sorrow drinks our blood .
is it gone?
no ,  alas ,  i found it ,  and i gave it to my husband .
excuse me ,  sir ?
this direction is east .
normally i would ask you what your name is first .
will you have dinner there?
o ,  farewell ,  farewell the neighing horse and the shrill trumpet ,  the spirit - stirring drum ,  the ear - piercing fife ,  the royal banner ,  and all goodness ,  pride ,  pomp ,  and circumstance of glorious war !
if we cannot defend our country with three times such a power left at home ,  then we deserve to be harassed by an invader and lose our reputation as a powerful and politically savvy nation .
we must tie them up and leave them in some dark room .
nothing’s ours, all's been spent, where we got what we wanted, but without content.
they are, my lord, outside the palace gate.
kneel down to the duke before he passes by the abbey .
you’re the ruins of the noblest man that ever lived in the tide of times.
their hounds are unequaled in courage .
not by the likes of you !
her fallow fields are overgrown with weeds ,  while the blade that should uproot such wilderness lies rusting .
kneel ,  romans ,  kneel ,  and let’s wash our hands ,  up to the elbows ,  in caesar’s blood and smear it on our swords .
we spend more time seeking out the fleeting glories of this temporary world than looking to the permanent grace of god !
it won’t matter .
and how is she doing ?
i wish your highness knew my true feelings in this matter: i have never in my life loved my brother .
she's dead ,  deceased !
you were a cold crumb on dead julius caesar’s plate when i met you .
all the conspirators, except him, did that they did out of jealousy of great caesar; only he, in a general-honest thought and common good to all, made one of them.
this is dear mercy, and you don’t see it.
but, lepidus, go to caesar's house; go get the will here, and we shall determine how to cut off some appointments in legacies.
get me some ink and paper ,  and hire some horses to ride .
how did you know what happened to your poor father ?
no ,  it is not possible you should love the enemy of france ,  kate .
i believe you ,  and i ask you to forgive me .
claudius!
let her be strict with him ,  and i’ll be hide ,  if it pleases you ,  so i can hear of all their conference .
because ,  before demetrius looked on hermia's eyes ,  he swore many oaths that he was only mine; and ,  when this torrent of oaths was rejected by hermia ,  demetrius dissolved ,  and his oaths melted too .
who must hang them?
signor antonio ,  you’ve often insulted my money and my business practices in the rialto .
are you insane ,  old man ?
capulet ,  montague ,  see what a cruel calamity is caused your hate ,  that heaven finds a way to kill your joys with love !
i’m too young to remember anything like it .
what good luck !
and everyone can say  “ welcome ,  ”  which is just a word .
we told him about them ,  and it seemed to make him happy to hear of it .
i really needed blessing, and the "amen" stuck in my throat.
the change will be recorded as a precedent ,  and many bad legal decisions will result .
no ,  sir ,  i did not give the finger to you ,  sir ,  but i did give the finger .
my oberon!
o idiot !
is he alone ?
so, farewell.
a braggart, a rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic!
here is a letter found in the pocket of the murdered roderigo, and here another.
it is a lost fear; man can only rush against othello's breast ,  and he retires .
when he needs what you have found out ,  it is by squeezing you ,  and ,  sponge ,  you shall be dry again .
all to our advantage .
continue ,  come to hecuba .
thus from my lips ,  by your lips ,  my sin is purged .
he’s dead .
no .
and since you know you can see yourself best by reflection ,  i’ll be your mirror and show you ,  without exaggeration ,  things inside you that you can’t see .
your false uncle— are you listening to me ?
yet she must die ,  or else she'll betray more men .
when you’ve finished ,  go back to pompey’s theater .
no, cassio is not killed.
if this letter falls into your hands ,  think carefully about what it says .
aside .
yes, by mary, it is, but to my mind, though i am a native here, and know the customs since birth, it is a custom more honored in the braking it than the observing it.
you must be crazy to say that !
are there parties ?
i’ll have nothing to do with you .
did cicero say anything?
what a fearful night is this!
i didn’t hear it .
are you going riding you this afternoon?
love ,  therefore ,  and tongue - tied simplicity speaking the least means most to me .
sister, where were you?
your  “ love ”  is lying there .
what i can do, i will; and i will do as much more than i dare do for myself.
you’ve forgotten the will i told you about .
wow ,  he’s a real devil .
here's to my love !
do so ,  and bid my sweet to prepare to scold me .
in belmont, there is a rich heiress and she is beautiful and, more beautiful than that word, she has wonderful virtues.
no ,  he has simply the best wit of any working man in athens .
how shall we find the concord of this discord ?
who else?
i thank your highness .
you should have run up to her ,  unleashed a few excellent quips invented on the spot ,  and rendered the young man speechless .
this is some cat's gift ,  and i must take out the work ?
say these bitter things to your bitter foe .
if there isn’t a solution ,  i have the power to kill myself .
he must be very near by now .
most like a gentleman .
where was she born ?
what are you saying ?
my own flesh and blood to rebel !
have some surgeon nearby, shylock, on your responsibility, to stop his wounds, so that he won’t bleed to death.
think that you are a baby, that you have taken these offers for true love, which are not true offers.
they were poisoned ,  then .
i would whip a guy for making a tyrant sound too tyrannical .
no, as i shall be saved.
if it’s true, how little is the cost i have paid in purchasing the image of my soul from out of the state of hellish cruelty!
not matched equally, pyrrhus lunges at priam, strikes wild in rage, but, with the whiff and wind of his fierce sword, the shaken father falls.
sir, before this audience, let my denial of evil intent give me immunity in your most generous thoughts as though i have shot my arrow over the house and hurt my brother.
right now ?
i’m sure you know him .
i find you quite gentle .
little birds do it ,  and dragonflies copulate right in front of me .
no, that's true; that's very true.
i only need to show your sword to caesar and tell him about your death to get into his good favor .
to hear this, desdemona would seriously listen, but still the house affairs would draw her away, which she would finish in a great hurry, and she’d come again, and eat up my stories with a greedy ear, which i observing, once i took a rare hour; and found good ways to draw a prayer of earnest enthusiasm from her so that i would lengthen all my stories, which she had already heard bits and pieces of, but not all of them.
i can help you find a wife who’s rich ,  young ,  beautiful ,  and reared in a manner fit for a gentlewoman .
yes ,  my good lord .
we'll make it a small wedding ,  a friend or two; because ,  listen ,  tybalt’s being killed so recently ,  people may think we didn’t care for him ,  being our relative ,  if we party too much .
ice - cold frosts freeze the fresh crimson roses; and on the old god of harmony’s chin and icy crown ,  is set a circle of sweet summer buds almost in mockery of the frost .
please ,  write down  “ borachio .  ” —and yours ?
where is duncan's body?
i haven’t spoken to him since i sent him away from the marketplace earlier .
you who are wicked beyond belief ,  the only  “ explanation ”  i’ll accept from you is for you to hang yourself .
be assured of this, that the magnifico is very popular; and has, in his office, a voice equal to twice the duke's.
if that’s true ,  then don’t be tongue - tied .
i watched him very well .
tonight we host a solemn supper, sir, and i'll request your presence.
within this hour, my man shall be with you, and bring you a rope ladder; which must be my way to the highest point of my joy in the secret night.
and all my children ?
what a drunken imbecile is this !
i’d rather be a baboon than kill myself out of love for some woman i can’t have .
i must go report what happened .
come ,  romeo .
a piece of him .
i hear a voice that is more shrill than all the music yelling ,   " caesar "  !
the all-seeing sun never saw anything to match her since the world first began.
just that one .
my good lord— you’ve always been a liar .
is she as fiery a shrew as they say ?
ask this man’s forgiveness ,  love him ,  and accept his offer .
yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him?
this is rebellion .
laertes, i must share your grief, or you deny me my rights.
i’m in a mood to beat you up pretty good .
what is this that rises like the heirs of a king ,  and wears upon his baby brow the golden crown of a king ?
you may go that far .
confined together in the same fashion as you told me; just as you left them: all prisoners ,  sir ,  in the grove of trees which weatherproofs your dwelling; they can’t budge until you release them .
give me some whiskey .
to romeo] why the devil did you come between us?
so good - bye for now .
follow me close ,  because i will speak to them .
hello ,  sweet lady .
what kind of devil are you to torture me like this ?
get ready ,  my lord .
your highness told me to ask for my commission today .
now he denies it faintly and laughs it out.
o dear ophelia ,  i am sick at the number of my sighs ,  i don’t have the skill to calculate my groans .
and what do you know ,  boy ?
i am sure ,  sweet kate ,  this kindness deserves thanks .
o ,  a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet .
or if you follow me ,  you’d better understand that i’ll do something bad to you in the forest .
hey !
tell me ,  good brutus ,  can you see your face ?
other than richard ,  even those whom we fight against would rather we won .
go on; directly .
when an evil thing has been lost ,  no one cries .
here ,  here !
why are you talking like that ?
come on ,  you keep getting paler .
even the fragile wren ,  the smallest of birds ,  will fight against the owl when it threatens her young ones in the nest .
don’t kneel, gentle portia.
ha !
i hope he’s in love .
what a painful condition responsibility is .
yes ,  madam .
curse you !
i bet it’s a challenge .
be kind and courteous to this gentleman; jump into his steps as he walks and dance in his eyes; feed him apricots and dewberries ,  purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries; steal the honey bags from the bumblebees ,  and ,  for night lights ,  cut their waxen thighs ,  and light them at the fiery glow - worm's eyes ,  in order to have my love go to sleep and wake up ,  and pluck the wings from painted butterflies ,  to fan the moonbeams out of sleeping eyes .
this is a nasty night to go swimming .
must i remember?
will all great neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hand ?
most miserable hour that time ever saw in lasting work of his travels !
how are you ,  my noble lord ?
many times ,  madam .
and now, please, sir,— because it is still on my mind,—your reason for raising this storm at sea?
i think it can be no other reason but that.
is that my prize?
good morning ,  caesar .
i know a lot about the love women can feel for men .
and if anything important happens ,  find me and let me know .
eat .
he can sniff his way to dover .
if i ever come back ,  i’ll bring you good news .
we are ruined ,  lady ,  we are ruined !
you see ,  her eyes are open .
but when  you take up your duties too cheerfully .
i’m sure his majesty will recover his health soon .
he’s pale and hyperventilating ,  as if a bear were chasing him .
it’ll be lunchtime within an hour .
hey monster ,  the spirit you’ve been talking about ,  the one you call harmless ,  has been playing tricks on us .
where’s antony ?
i regret my crime more than my death ,  and i beg your highness to forgive me ,  while punishing my body with death .
where the devil can this romeo be?
this play isn’t right for you .
lord ,  how my head aches !
let’s give a fair verdict .
stop, oh!
have you come from bellario’s office in padua ?
now you are my lieutenant.
if not ,  you can kill me .
sir, there was a kind of fighting in my heart that wouldn’t let me sleep.
well ,  that’s the same thing .
we are wasting time; please, enforce sentence.
and you’re not suited for any place except hell .
what, did they never whisper?
what does you gracious figure want ?
before the debt is paid?
we shouldn’t make any judgments until we achieve our goal .
then see a good one for me .
passionately ”  ?
no .
a lover, or a tyrant?
seven days and nights ?
three proper young men ,  all good looking and with great presence—
but silence ,  like a knife ,  cuts open my heart with strokes that draw no blood .
call my brother.
and you’ll speak on the same platform as i do ,  after i’m done .
farewell .
o, forgive me for bringing you this sad news, since you did leave it all up to me, sir.
he’s an honest man who detests evil actions .
will you know the truth about it?
for there never was a pretty woman who didn’t like to preen in the mirror .
there are others who, dressed in uniforms and faces of duty, that keep their hearts attending on themselves; and, throwing only shows of service to their lords, thrive well by them, and when they have lined their coats, do themselves homage.
i think this night is just like sick daylight .
speculation only tells about their unsure hopes; only a certain outcome must settle which direction the war will take .
how clever of you .
and shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was ready to fly; and then it is the nature of them all to leave the nest.
let me stand here until you remember .
fill your purse with money.
it will be made even heavier soon—by the weight of a man .
strangle her in her bed ,  the same bed she’s contaminated .
my lord, my lord!
that’s a wise idea .
will you marry her ?
but if you knew to whom you give this friendship, how true a gentleman you send in relief, how dear a friend of my lord is your husband, i know you show more pride in the work than accustomed behavior can make you show.
mark antony shall say i’m not well ,  and ,  to make you happy ,  i’ll stay home .
let me see—what do you think about falling in love ?
my lord ,  i’ll say goodbye now .
we will get ourselves ready .
get somebody strong to carry him out of here .
god be with you all .
there’s always a breath of fresh air here .
i will not fight with you.
so romeo ,  if he wasn’t called  “ romeo ,  ”  would retain that dear perfection which he has without that title .
you were the prettiest baby that i ever nursed .
royal seductress !
unless i’ve mistaken his battle flags ,  which i’m sure i haven’t ,  his regiment lies at least half a mile south of the king’s mighty army .
whenever you want ,  since you’re the one who wants it .
mark antony shall say i’m not well, and, to make you happy, i’ll stay home.
good question, girl: my tale invites that question.
master young man, you, please; which is the way to master jew's?
please ,  be cheerful .
a most ridiculous monster, to make a a poor drunkard amazing!
but why should honor outlive honesty?
romeo ,  will you come to your father's ?
o sad sympathy!
that’s true .
my lord bassanio, and my gentle lady, i wish you all the joy that you can wish for yourselves; because i am sure you can’t wish any from me; and when you two mean to make the bargain of your vows solemn, please, even then, let me be married too.
a little bit .
while you were being overwhelmed here by your grief ,  a passion very unsuitable to such a man ,  cassio came here .
and my king goes on: if your royal father does not sweeten the bitter insult you sent my king and grant all our demands ,  henry’s artillery will give you so resounding an answer that the very caves and vaulted cathedrals of france shall echo your mocking of him back in your face .
yes, and said nothing except that which i have every intention of doing.
let me draw the curtains.
mark antony heard that you were preparing to wage war on him .
let’s hear what antony can say.
hated potion ,  get away !
do you like me ,  kate ?
and yet you say that exile is not death ?
until recently ,  i was as unimportant to his affairs as the morning dew is to the wide ocean .
who offered him the crown ?
i must admit your offer is the best .
i'll wait no longer .
back ,  foolish tears ,  back to your native spring .
she had a song of  " willow ,  "  it was an old thing but it expressed her fortune ,  and she died singing it .
no .
othello?
he’s not sick in the brain?
not this hour ,  lieutenant; it is not yet ten of the clock .
these chests may not be what they seem outside: the world is still tricked by ornament.
do you hear what i say ,  lady ?
oh ,  don’t worry about it—we’ll dip your    i’ll get you for that one .
who ,  him ?
this precious little guy is putty in your hands ,  sir toby .
who’s there ?
i once wrote a sonnet in his praise which began ,   “ wonder of nature— ”  i have heard a sonnet to one’s mistress that began like that .
your eldest daughters destroyed themselves and died in despair .
regarding this vision here, it is an honest ghost, that i can tell you.
with one little toss of his head ,  he can scare you off for good .
how is it with you ?
my father’s ghost—armed !
how this sneering fault - finder rhymes so badly !
o ,  this is the poison of deep grief ,  it all springs from her father's death .
i’ll tell you all about my meetings, all the reasons for my sad brows.
when all these extraordinary things happen at once ,  we shouldn’t say ,   “ these happenings can be explained rationally .
then the liars and swearers are fools ,  because there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them .
terrible .
i thank you sir ,  you have gotten me one .
if not the face of men ,  the suffering of our souls ,  the waste of time— if these motives are weak ,  let’s break it off now ,  and every man go away to his lazy rest ,  let high - sighted tyranny range on until each man drops by chance .
eventually he finds him ,  striking too short at the greeks .
please, if you hate me, kill me now while your purpled hands smeared with fresh blood.
so i welcome this wind freely .
my soul is full of confusion and sorrow.
that’s him .
the danes ,  the germans ,  and the dutch—come on ,  drink ,  drink ! —are nothing compared to the english .
indeed ,  the enemy nearly took the bridge ,  but he was forced to retreat ,  and the duke of exeter holds the bridge .
i’ll ask you another question .
don’t ,  my lord .
then ,  his thisbe must be answered ,  and my creation comes back to the rehearsal .
look ,  lucius ,  here’s the book i was searching for .
in that case you should sleep .
come ,  madam ,  let’s leave .
but will my rosalind do this ,  too ?
your grace ,  the person who is going to deliver the prologue is ready .
well ,  take him on up and we’ll try to pull it off .
no ,  no ,  he’s dead .
well ,  that’s what you get to do .
i am sorry that you will leave my father like this: our house is hell, and you, a happy devil, robbed it of some taste of boredom.
some of your french crowns have no hair at all ,  and then you will play it with no beard !
i’m bleeding ,  but you didn’t kill me .
madam wife ,  they say i’ve been dreaming or asleep for more than fifteen years .
i always loved you.
fear it ,  ophelia ,  fear it ,  my dear sister ,  and keep your affections deep within you ,  out of the range and danger of desire .
which of you has been complaining to the king that i don’t like them ?
o, she is lame!
that’s what i want you to tell me .
no more than my staying here in rome might mean to you in egypt .
servant ,  get away .
o god ,  that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains !
i know i’m not fooling myself ,  or letting myself get carried away by my imagination ,  because every clue points to the fact that lady olivia loves me .
the king rises.
your fat king and your lean beggar interchangeable, two dishes but for one table.
but here comes my father .
come on ,  tell me the truth .
did you call me ?
and ,  i beg you ,  twist the law once to your authority; to do a great right ,  do a little wrong ,  and deprive this cruel devil of his will .
the grey - eyed morning smiles on the frowning night ,  cutting the eastern clouds into squares with streaks of light; and the flecked darkness reels like a drunkard from the day's path and the sun’s hot rays .
could beauty ,  my lord ,  have better dealings than with sincerity ?
now bury the living and dead ,  until you have made a mountain from this flat earth to be higher than the mountain of italy or the skyish head of blue mount olympus .
don’t greet your bride in these disgraceful clothes .
what, shall i find you here?
go, do what i have told you.
o ,  in this kind of love ,  you love your child so badly that you are going crazy ,  seeing that she is well .
these are tricks .
he says more in one minute than he does in a whole month .
titania, call for music, and strike the senses of all these five so that they seem more dead than sleeping.
you love me in spite of your heart ,  i think .
can such things be ,  that can overcome us like a summer's cloud ,  without puzzling us ?
her body sleeps in the capulet tomb ,  and her soul lives with the angels .
oh ,  sweet mermaid ,  don’t command me to drown myself in the flood of your sister’s tears .
i’m glad casca is with us .
by god ,  i will tell the king about these taunts .
welcome ,  dear rosencrantz and guildenstern !
we’ll have supper in the morning .
please ,  uncle ,  let’s go in and ask your daughters to forgive you .
we'll have it tomorrow night.
no one now, to mock your own grinning?
hail !
francis flute ,  the bellows - mender .
i'll not argue with her, should her body and beauty change my mind again.
the business you began here needs you as well—especially the business with cleopatra ,  which only you can attend to .
tell me ,  good brutus ,  can you see your face ?
very wise .
since she belongs to me ,  i can do what i want with her—as the law says: i can either make her marry demetrius—or have her killed .
i’m off to visit my friends in padua—particularly my best friend hortensio .
if i know nothing about pity ,  that must mean i’m not an animal .
you’ve shut me up in a dark room and given your drunken cousin authority over me ,  but i’m as sane as you are .
it had a violent beginning, and you shall see an answerable separation— put only money in your purse.—these moors are changeable in their wills.
what ,  not dare to tempt him ?
why, how are you, juliet?
o dissolving soul ,  that ,  struggling to be free ,  is more a slave !
my wickedness ?
now, good angels preserve the king!
all you gods ,  in general meeting ,  take away her power ,  break all the spokes and curved rims from her wheel ,  and bowl the hub of the wheel down the hill of heaven ,  as low as you can to kill the fiends !
i’ll get the general’s surgeon .
but you’re not listening to me .
an enemy to tyrants and a friend to my country .
go to bed ,  and sleep .
fool ,  do not flatter yourself .
i’m hoping my holy mood will pass .
only there's no bottom, none, in my own evils.
good question ,  my girl .
yes ,  damn it ,  i'll be taking care of it right away .
it’s true, my brother's daughter is queen of tunis; she also inherits naples; there is some distance between the two countries.
where will the old duke live ?
i hope to god we can make him happy and do him some good !
is there anything else to say?
claim fair england’s peace depends on this alliance .
your majesty, and we that have free souls can’t be touched by it.
four o'clock in the morning .
the things i’m saying are fair and honest .
you can do whatever you want as long as it’s socially appropriate .
the fair ophelia!
what common uses we may return to, horatio!
why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth ,  unfit for toil and trouble in the world ,  if not so that our soft qualities and our hearts should agree with our external parts ?
so ,  i won’t .
come on; in this transaction, there can be no fear; my ships come home a month before the due date.
it’s good if you love hero ,  because she’s worthy of your love .
i think i did ,  sir .
let me see ,  let me see .
that man always looks so sour !
what trash rome is ,  what rubbish ,  and what garbage ,  when it serves as the fuel to start a fire that will throw light on so vile a thing as caesar !
and me too .
what’s that paper you were reading ?
that our grandmother’s soul could end up inhabiting a bird .
and i’ve been avoiding him all day .
if you aren’t weeping ,  it’s a good sign that i’ll soon have a new father .
i think he really is angry .
let’s go!
i'll get me to a place with more space, and there speak to great caesar as he comes along.
my master is the great rich capulet; and if you are not of the house of montagues ,  please ,  come and have a cup of wine .
shylock is my name .
i am your spaniel, and, demetrius, the more you beat me, the more i will wag my tail for you.
there’s still a stain on your cheek from an old tear that hasn’t been washed off yet .
what did your song predict ,  lady ?
if you will please break this up ,  it will become clear .
i followed you here in the chase ,  not like a hound that hunts ,  but like the hunted by the hound .
but this eternal description must not be given to ears of flesh and blood .
sir toby ,  i’ve got to be frank with you .
what handkerchief ?
but it is true , —without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk , —that the good antonio ,  the honest antonio , —oh ,  that i had a title good enough to keep his name company ! — come ,  the whole story .
if we walk on the well - worn paths ,  they won’t get caught in our petticoats .
be on guard duty tonight .
start a fight ?
so be it .
and i will run through fire, i will, for your sweet sake.
give me those flowers .
what would you like to see ?
who doesn’t know that the good duke is dead ?
if you have poison for me ,  i’ll drink it .
how is it that moonshine is gone before thisbe comes back and finds her lover ?
didn’t you send lysander ,  as an insult ,  to follow me around praising my eyes and my face ?
don’t swear by the future ,  because you’ve ruined it before it has even arrived .
how are you feeling now ?
come, nerissa.
good morning ,  noble sir .
he will be fooled into thinking he is greater than fate ,  he will mock death ,  and he will think he is above wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear .
how’s everyone in verona ?
hass the storm blown over?
goodbye, brave moor; be kind to desdemona.
then ,  do my lips have the sin that they have taken from yours ?  .
cassio’s a good friend of mine—my lord ,  i can see you’re upset .
don’t snap at me .
why, then may you leave a panel of the great chamber-window, where we play, open; and the moon may shine in at that panel.
it was just an accident !
no, it is.
every second you delay is as long and dull as a journey to south seas .
so much for our plan .
he's fat ,  and out of breath .
you should have a guard nearby if he comes in here ,  because he’s clearly disturbed .
you are my love ,  i think .
here an angel’s lying in a golden bed . —give me the key .
no ,  answer me .
and after this, let caesar sit more securely on his throne, because we will shake him from there, or endure worse days.
give me my robe ,  because i’ll go .
i swear by jupiter i’ll never revoke this punishment .
very well !
we won’t ,  sir .
what ,  isn’t my mother coming ?
you’ll be afraid to hear it .
he's for a jig or a dirty tale, or he sleeps.
that’s the way of the world .
the king of england’s approach is as forceful as a whirlpool .
let me speak as you would; and lay a sentence which ,  as a grace or step ,  may help these lovers into your favor .
then ,  like prophets ,  they named him the father to a line of kings .
i’ll do my best to make this lady love you .
oh weary night, oh long and tedious night, cut your hours short!
please ,  somebody ,  get us out of here !
your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
i didn’t deny you.
o gentle romeo, if you do love, pronounce it faithfully.
when i was still living with him i heard him swear to tubal and cush ,  his countrymen ,  that he’d rather have antonio’s flesh than twenty times the sum antonio owed .
you lie ,  malignant thing !
enough !
a light, a light!
give us kind keepers, heavens!
put money in your purse; follow the wars; defeat your mood with an false beard; i say, put money in your purse.
our feast shall be very honored by your marriage .
are you truthful?
why?
ah, dear juliet, why are you still so beautiful?
you’re still here ,  laertes !
come with me and i’ll get it for you .
will you ,  strato ?
your songs?
a happiness that often craziness hits on, which reason and sanity couldn’t arranged so happily.
we’re in god’s hands ,  brother ,  not in theirs .
there is a tide in the affairs of men which, if taken at high tide, leads to good luck; not taken, all the voyages of their lives are bound to end in shallows and in miseries.
you can refuse to make me your spouse ,  but i’ll be your servant whether you want me to or not .
you take that ,  too .
i can’t tell who’s who .
i beg you, go with me.
lose hope of your charm; and let the genius whom you still have served tell you ,  macduff was from his mother's womb delivered by caesarean section .
goodbye ,  you dumb old spirit .
good - bye ,  until you return tonight .
my lord ?
truly, sir, all that i live by is with the sharp little tool; i don’t stick my nose into any tradesman's matters, or women's matters, but with awl.
he has much fertile land .
and who is that ?
therefore ,  use none .
you seem to be a good person ,  captain ,  and although people who look beautiful are often corrupt inside ,  i believe that you have a beautiful mind to go with your good looks and manners .
madam ,  what should i do ?
i hope i see him and hear him again soon .
why does he allow this rude fellow to knock him about the head now, with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him why he’s being hit?
will you come ?
and what other oath than honesty to honesty promised that this promise shall be ,  or we will die for it ?
a bastard ,  crazy fellow's it was .
let’s do it.
i’m as crazy as he is ,  if sad craziness and happy craziness are equivalent .
nothing more than that ?
no, that would be a pity; i would beg you rather to put on your boldest face of happiness, because we have friends that offer merriment.
i’m ready .
i will go right away to my ghostly priest's house ,  to get his help and to tell him about my dear good fortune .
he’s afraid to come in .
take him away .
while i stood spellbound ,  messengers from the king arrived and greeted me as the thane of cawdor ,  which is precisely how the weird sisters had saluted me before calling me ’the future king !
mercutio ,  be quiet .
go to your bedroom .
how can you stand there shamelessly talking about me and hippolyta ,  when you know that i know about your love for theseus ?
from now on i’ll put up with my anguish until the anguish itself cries out ,   “ enough ,  enough !  ”  and disappears .
shall we go see this fortification ,  men ?
sister ,  where were you ?
do you know any ,  hero ?
all of which, sir, although i believe it most powerfully and potently, yet i think it was dishonest to have written it like this, because you yourself, sir, should be old as i am, if, like a crab, you could go backward.
my lord ,  the enemy has already passed the marsh .
yes ,  that one .
i knew him when he would’ve walked ten miles to see a well - crafted suit of armor; now he spends ten nights awake in his room designing himself a fancy new jacket .
don’t you hear him?
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  fire burn and cauldron bubble .
one of them showed me a ring that he accepted from your daughter as payment for a monkey.
are you sad about that ?
i’ll ask that again; for nothing can be wrong if she is well .
stop, take my sword.
and i departed in a rage ,  right ?
save me and hover over me with your wings, you heavenly guards!
miranda—o my father!
as far as i’m concerned ,  what’s past is done .
follow and see to it that nothing serious happens between them .
can you tell me ?
we have here written to norway ,  uncle of young fortinbras ,  who ,  impotent and bed - rid ,  knows nothing of his nephew's intentions ,  to stop his further progress in this plan because the levies ,  the lists ,  and full proportions are all made without his knowledge ,  and we are sending you ,  good cornelius ,  and you ,  voltimand ,  to take this greeting to old norway ,  without giving you any further personal power to do business with the king ,  more than the scope of these detailed items allow .
do you intend to walk outside?
how can it be ?
i have well proven it ,  sir .
if my eyes don’t deceive me ,  you are my daughter .
tybalt would have killed you, but you killed tybalt.
i may command the one i love .  ”  well ,  she commands me .
yes ,  it already has garrisons .
the work we enjoy is not really work .
yes, my good lord.
but let’s follow it ,  and then do our dirty work afterward .
villain, be sure you prove my love a whore; be sure of it.
if you can love me for this ,  take me .
what’s the news ?
i have had it, and soundly too.
let's do it, i beg you, and i know exactly where we shall easily find him.
go tell him about this.
farewell .
i was never cursed; i have no gift at all in being a fighter; i am a right maid for my cowardice; don’t let her strike me.
yes, he is dead.
do you hear me, roderigo?
i saw bassanio sail away ,  and gratiano went with him .
she doesn’t dare lie near this lack - love ,  this kill - courtesy .
i’ve never been more useful to you than i will be now .
come on ,  take us to him .
wake up ,  look up ,  or i will die with you !
not for a second .
you shall see it will fall right just as i told you . —she comes from over there .
a friend .
the gallows-maker, for that frame outlives a thousand tenants.
and he’s mine too ,  and to a such bloody degree ,  that every minute of his being puts a big knot in my stomach; and though i could sweep him from my sight with barefaced power ,  and bid my will guarantee it ,  i can’t do it ,  because certain friends that are both his and mine ,  whose loves i may not lose ,  would only protest his fall who i myself struck down .
oh yes .
and now titania and oberon can never meet in the grove or on green ,  by a clear fountain ,  or spangled shiny starlight ,  but they refuse to settle the issue ,  so that all their elves creep into acorn cups ,  and hide them there ,  because they’re so frightened .
go, nurse, go with her.
strato ,  you’ve slept this whole time .
i used to love you .
my food ,  my fortune ,  my sweetest hope ,  my heaven on earth ,  and my entrance to heaven .
i ,  beyond all limit of whatever else in the world ,  do love ,  prize ,  honor you .
i’ll send my eyes to prison ,  and they’ll never be free to look at anything again .
tell him that when our noble father ,  the duke of york ,  gave his three sons his blessing ,  he never imagined that our friendship would come to this .
why ,  what do you imagine his name to be ?
he dined at my house; but i don’t shake because of that .
antonio is a good man .
your cause of sorrow must not be measured by his worth ,  because then it will have no end .
then i could stop wondering ,  and find some other career .
well, we’ll see your behavior.
so get ready to leave .
if you’re lying ,  i’ll hang you alive from the nearest tree until you die of hunger .
listen!
i’ll give  thank you ,  darling .
in that and all things ,  we will show our duty .
you pale face !
you can’t force me any more than hermia can beg me .
what ,  my young lady and mistress !
you’re right—i’ll go quietly .
lay your finger like this ,  and let your soul be instructed .
she is dead .
tell me what my part is ,  and then proceed .
oh wicked wall ,  through whom i see no bliss ,  cursed be your stones for deceiving me like this !
your love says ,  like an honorable gentleman ,  'where is your mother ?
get out !
it’s about who i am ,  and how ,  why ,  and where this handkerchief was stained .
those dreams are indeed ambition, for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
i see the downfall of my family .
if he’s reluctant ,  i can convince him .
she was too fond of her very filthy bargain.
if you’re being fair ,  you’ll have to describe me as someone who loved too much ,  but who wasn’t wise about it .
but where’s my fool ?
you may deny me to be your friend; but i'll be your servant ,  whether you will want me or not .
i admit it doesn’t look that way to me ,  and the fact that you suspect me shows that you’re smart .
what would you like ,  laertes ?
how are you doing ,  charles ?
i guarantee you, my man is as true as steel.
who are you there ?
madam ,  i heard her speak .
it probably has something to do with… i don’t know .
o ,  she's rich in beauty; only poor that ,  when she dies ,  her beauty dies with her .
he’s or taken or slain .
may be the letter upset him; because, i think, they command him to come home, making cassio governor in his place.
treason !
well ,  let me get back to my choice .
o ,  don’t be afraid of me .
i thought i was in love with a donkey.
you are all    lord of lords !
oh please ,  go somewhere else to blab your nonsense .
revenge it like a man.
rome has lost the ability to raise noble men !
there is so much money if you’ll kill me now; kill brutus, and be honored in his death.
i am your own forever .
tell him a messenger has arrived from my master with good news .
a trade, sir, that i hope i may use with a clear conscience, which is indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
yes ,  amen !
playing the lord like that ,  not only with what my money yielded ,  but also whatever else my power might get him , —like one who having lied so often by telling it enough ,  made his memory such a sinner that it gave truth to his own lie , —he believed he was indeed the duke ,  making substitution for me ,  and wearing the outward show of royalty ,  with all rights and privileges . —here his ambition growing— are you listening ?
a madness most discreet, a choking acid, and a preserving sweet.
what does a crocodile look like ?
no ,  that's true; that's very true .
sweet phoebe ,  do not scorn me .
help ,  help ,  oh ,  help !
he made this rope ladder to be a highway to my bed ,  but i am a virgin ,  and i will die a virgin and a widow .
enough to buy everything you have declared .
go escort the lords of france and burgundy ,  gloucester .
most worthy gentleman, my friend and i have been acquitted today of grievous penalties by your wisdom; instead of three thousand dollars, due to the jew, we will freely pay for your courteous pains.
look ,  here i have macbeth’s cursed head .
after a brief time—as he is a strong ,  brave man—
most beautiful pagan ,  most sweet jew !
and almost like a licensed surgeon.
for that reason ,  take our last ,  eternal goodbye .
the galleys have sent a dozen sequential messengers this very night at one another's heels; and many of the consuls ,  awakened and meeting ,  are at the duke's already .
beat me !
and after that he came back here looking so serious ?
nurse, commend me to your lady and mistress.
hello and god bless you ,  sir .
i beg you not to push my speech to grosser issues or to reach beyond mere suspicion.
how satisfied, my lord?
where have you been, sister?
oh dear !
but let this speaking be done now, even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance on plots and errors happen.
your noble shape is only a form of wax, deviating from the valor of a man; your dear love sworn is empty lies, killing that love which you have vowed to cherish; your wit, that ornament to shape and love, disfigured in the conduct of them both, like powder in a recruit soldier's flask, is set a-fire by your own ignorance, and you dismembered by your own defense.
you told me to make it well and properly and in keeping with the current style .
where's your master ?
only when they’re dead can i start to count my gains .
more torches here!
for shame !
your son edward ,  who stabbed my son edward ,  is dead .
do you remember the circumstances ?
look ,  here comes someone who loves me ,  along with someone who loves her .
is it more sin to wish me to be a liar, or to curse my husband with the same tongue that she has praised him with, above compare so many thousand times?
a nice coincidence ,  my lord .
didn’t he, right away, in pious rage, kill the two delinquents that were the slaves of drink and in the thralls of sleep?
come ,  and you can have a queen .
i’m telling you ,  you jerk priest ,  my sister will be an angel in heaven while you’re howling in hell .
help !
i beg you ,  take them back now .
see, it stalks away!
quiet ,  i say .
they in themselves ,  to tell the truth ,  are as light as a flute .
why ,  you silly gentleman !
good morning ,  brutus; are we troubling you ?
let me love him because he deserves it ,  and you can love him because i do .
no ,  he hasn’t .
o ,  what a noble mind here is conquered !
in every good thing they do .
o, she is more the angel, and you the blacker devil!
i beg you, tonight lay my wedding sheets on my bed, remember?
and i will not beg for more .
don’t grieve that i am doing this for you ,  because here fortune shows herself more kind than is her habit: it is still her habit to let the wretched man outlive his wealth ,  to view an age of poverty with hollow eye and wrinkled brow; she cuts me off from the lingering repentance of such misery .
but the man who carried my letter, friar john, was delayed by accident, and last night returned my letter to me.
he ,  sir .
yes ,  it is ,  i think .
now ,  my dear friend ,  what lucky wind blows you in from verona ?
if brutus will guarantee that antony may safely come to him and is ready to tell how caesar deserved to die ,  mark antony shall love brutus living better than caesar dead ,  and will follow the fortunes and affairs of noble brutus with all true faith thorough the hazards of this unconquered state .
it’s unnatural ,  even like the deed that's been done .
a sail.
here comes the man who rescued me ,  sir .
i’ll take you and your wonderful virtues here and now ,  if it’s okay that i’m picking up what others have thrown away .
o ,  yes; and went between us very often .
he so impressed me ,  that i ,  through lies and tricks ,  didn’t waste time in finding out what he did .
no ,  had she been true ,  if heaven would make me such another world of one entire and perfect crystal ,  i wouldn’t have sold her for it .
i would not for the wealth of all the town do him disrespect here in my house.
let’s get dressed quickly and then meet in the hall .
oh ,  she’s ten times nicer than her father is mean ,  and he’s the height of crabbiness .
a virtuous woman won’t give her husband horns ,  and my rosalind is definitely virtuous .
fruits and vegetables don’t ripen until the right season of the year .
but ,  oh no !
now be quiet .
i wish i had !
except that there's more work.
think about it .
i think that macedon is indeed where alexander was born .
you were never with me for anything when you were not there for the goose.
who’s this ?
it’s thinking about it too much to think like that.
how every fool can play on the word!
not from crying .
i don’t know ,  ma'am .
my child ,  my reason for living ,  wake up ,  look up ,  or i’ll die with you !
get information from her .
long live gonzalo!
o loving hate !
i don’t understand .
you advise me well .
let me sit down .
no ,  madam ,  i’m just reading an insane letter .
think what you will, i am your lover's grace; and like limander, i am still trusty.
have you your father's permission ?
you’ve pierced me through the heart with your cruelty ,  and yet you ,  the murderer ,  look as bright and clear as a star in the sky .
i will ,  my lord .
do that good deed which may make this island your own forever, and i, your caliban, your foot-licker forever.
directly.
i’ve already sent the proof in my letters .
will you go to them ?
give me my money and let me go .
before i open his letter, please tell me how my good friend is doing.
i beg you ,  come; will you ?
i’m your love ,  no matter what you think .
good morning ,  my noble lord .
didn’t you say he lied ?
i’ll forbid all ships from leaving our harbors .
most noble brother ,  you have done me wrong .
if you’ve got any music that can’t be heard ,  then play that .
isn’t this true ?
if we lose this battle ,  this is the last time we’ll speak to each other .
here comes the furious tybalt back again .
come ,  take away the  here comes master signior leonato with the sexton .
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands ,  and they unwashed too ,  it’s a foul thing .
fly ,  good fleance ,  fly ,  fly ,  fly !
that’s comforting .
that’s it .
ah ,  here comes my messenger . —what’s going on ,  you crazy spirit ?
for this slave ,  if there be any cunning cruelty that can torment him a lot and stop him a long time ,  it shall be his .
there’s music coming out of thin air .
a false conclusion .
and are you changed?
come ,  let's go; all the strangers are gone .
tell him to bring his pen and his inkwell to the jail .
who calls me villain ?
you can command a beggar to bow on bended knee ,  but can you take possession of his health ?
we'll burn his body in the holy place, and we’ll set the traitors' houses on fire with the torches.
this sight of death is like a bell that warns me i’m old and i’ll die soon .
please lock the door and keep quiet .
why should he have followed you ?
isn’t it like the king ?
it doesn’t matter .
well then ,  sing a lullaby to your generosity: it’ll nap until i come back .
please leave it to me to take care of the burial ,  as i have more reason to mourn than you do .
what ,  don’t courtiers' hands sweat ?
go ahead; you aren’t ,  cassius .
he is a notorious villain.
not dead?
she says enough; yet she's a simple rabbit that cannot say as much.
you knew my father well; therefore ,  you know me ,  the sole heir to all his property and possessions ,  which i have added to rather than depleted .
he did comply with his mother’s breast before he sucked it .
my hands are the same color as yours, only i would be ashamed to have such a white heart.
no ,  iago ,  i'll see before i doubt; when i doubt ,  i’ll need proof; and on the proof ,  there is no more but this ,  to hell with love or jealousy at once !
eighty ducats !
we have willing dames enough ,  so there cannot be that vulture in you ,  to devour so many as will dedicate themselves to greatness ,  finding greatness so inclined .
where am i ?
welcome ,  dear rosencrantz and guildenstern .
this is amazing .
titinius ,  if you love me ,  mount my horse and hide your spurs in him ,  until he has brought you up to the troops over there and back here again that i may rest assured whether the troops over there are friend or enemy .
is all the conversation that we two have shared, the sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent, when we have scolded the clock for parting us,—oh, is it all forgotten?
you opposed my taking part in the war .
oh heaven ,  oh earth ,  witness what i’m about to say ,  and reward me if i tell the truth !
consider yourself more dearly, or, not to keep harping on that poor phrase, doing harm to it, you'll “offer” me a fool!
you’re not thinking of leaving tonight ,  surely ?
tut, dun's the brownish color of a mouse, the constable's own word.
i will .
but ,  i beg you ,  don’t let any of your people wake me up; i feel a deep sleep coming .
my features are still that beautiful—or else you ,  the greatest soldier in the world ,  have become the greatest liar by overpraising them .
now bury the living and dead, until you have made a mountain from this flat earth to be higher than the mountain of italy or the skyish head of blue mount olympus.
draw your sword ,  scoundrel .
what's the matter ,  lieutenant ?
antonio will guarantee it ,  hmmm .
why ?
romeo will answer the challenge .
i’ll challenge him .
i’m locked in one of them .
what do you think about it?
anyway ,  go tell your master i am here .
i dare not say he lies anywhere .
our royal master's murdered!
i’m satisfied .
here i am ,  theseus .
i swear to you ,  i don’t want to be doing this .
that he has used you .
with drink, sir?
what do i see on you?
all right ,  then .
damn it !
now go to the door ,  and stay there until we call .
double, double, toil and trouble; fire, burn; and caldron, bubble.
all right then ,  back home we go .
still your fingers to your lips again ?
oh ,  that’s a good wish !
you shall be free.
prepare yourselves ,  generals .
he was in a good mood ,  and then suddenly he started thinking of rome .
i know you .
sir topas ,  sir topas !
you’re awfully eager to fight .
many proper men that ever walked on cowhide leather have walked on my work.
love can make worthless things beautiful .
it goes along with being born to greatness ,  but it makes you get badmouthed by every fool who only has his own suffering to care about .
you should pity rather than despise this situation .
wait for me there .
that’s true ,  lieutenant .
a free rope with a nooses; nothing else, for god's sake!
they shall ,  nerissa; but in such a costume that they’ll think we are finished with that we don’t have .
a friend of antony's.
what noise is this ?
i beg you ,  remember the porter .
yes, by mary, go, i tell you, and have him come here.
she can’t possibly have done you any wrong .
it is an unweeded garden that is going to seed ,  only things that are decaying and disgusting grow there .
i think you’re right ,  sir .
don’t look for your noble father on the ground forever with sad eyes.
then confess what evil is there mingled with your love .
once more, leave, good friends.
heaven commanded nature to fill her one body with all the graces that women contain .
we shouldn’t expect men to be perfect ,  or for them to be as polite as on the weddingday .
yeah ,  is the worst well ?
good morning ,  richmond .
you’ll have your answer soon .
my lord ,  i have some mementos of yours that i’ve been meaning to give back to you for a long time now .
what will this do ?
what do you want ?
we are wicked men ,  all ,  believe none of us .
what is it ,  laertes ?
died two months ago and not forgotten yet?
i think it does.
calls my lord?
to hear this ,  desdemona would seriously listen ,  but still the house affairs would draw her away ,  which she would finish in a great hurry ,  and she’d come again ,  and eat up my stories with a greedy ear ,  which i observing ,  once i took a rare hour; and found good ways to draw a prayer of earnest enthusiasm from her so that i would lengthen all my stories ,  which she had already heard bits and pieces of ,  but not all of them .
he must die ,  and ,  for my part ,  i don’t know a personal cause to throw at him ,  but for the general complaints .
i beg you, stop making curtsies, good sir.
i say it’s the moon that shines so bright .
i’ll back you up .
believe me based on my honor, and have respect for my honor, so you can believe.
tomorrow night ,  when the moon shines on the water and decorates the grass with tiny beads of pearly light (the time of night that always hides runaway lovers) ,  we plan to sneak out of athens .
then who took my letter to romeo ?
now ,  as you’re a roman ,  tell me the truth .
that we should, with joy, pleasure, partying, and applause, transform ourselves into beasts!
yes ,  and these .
the sight is sad ,  and our affairs come too late from england .
look ,  if you love me ,  stay .
yes, and brought off the field.
oh why ,  nature ,  did you make lions ?
but how is it that this memory lives in your mind ?
how shall i murder him ,  iago ?
let me see the count.
i’m not .
now die, die, die, die, die.
listen ,  but don’t speak .
it’s nice of you to remind me .
i will hide him ,  and will answer the death i gave him well .
that was the limit for me .
how are you ,  jessica ?
listen ,  listen to what i say: whoever strikes first ,  i’ll run him through with my sword ,  as sure as i’m a soldier .
i’ll have them sleep on cushions in my tent .
it’s falling into place.
take him away !
the ground is brown .
nobody delivered it ,  my lord .
look what a wardrobe is here for you!
throw some of your words at me .
unhappy fortune !
but honestly ,  i should have been a woman .
oh ,  what a sad sight !
wash me in steep - down gulfs of liquid fire !
your husband knew about everything .
now i see the blood rushing to your cheeks .
oh god ,  benedick will plague him like a disease !
they are coming to the play.
tonight i received a letter from my sister telling me all about them—and warning me not be at home in case they come to stay at my house .
it would be excellent if they could make a man halfway between don john and benedick .
i did that to him .
well, let his father be what he will be, we’re talking about young master launcelot.
what does he say about brutus ?
oh god ,  did romeo’s hand shed tybalt’s blood ?
you are now only fallen in his mood, a punishment more in policy than in malice; even as some one would beat his defenseless dog to scare an imperious lion.
cassio ,  do you know who might have stabbed you like this ?
shall we check him out ?
you cannot ,  unless my heart were in your hand ,  and that won’t happen while it is in my custody .
it would be bad if she knew about benedick’s love and teased him about it .
this letter from bellario introduces us to a young and well - educated legal expert .
it’s only going to make you sad ,  monsieur jaques .
so i won’t give or risk anything for lead .
my enemies help me understand myself better ,  which is an advantage ,  and my friends help me lie about myself ,  which is a disadvantage .
before she began shedding tears all over her lovely face ,  she was the fairest creature in the world—and even now she has no equal .
you aren’t wood, you aren’t stones, you are men; and, being men, hearing the will of caesar, it will inflame you; it will make you crazy.
now ,  before the sun comes up and burns away the dew ,  i have to fill this basket of mine with poisonous weeds and medicinal flowers .
oh ,  that’s not true ,  my lord .
i say ,  we will have no more marriages .
sound, music.
give me my amour .
we will go to the best marriage-bed, which shall be blessed by us; and the children created there shall forever be lucky and prosperous.
to bed ,  to bed; there's knocking at the gate .
my lord ,  we will not .
but who’s coming ?
now is the time when we need your help .
sunday is just around the corner .
you showed your teeth like apes ,  and wagged your tails like hounds ,  and bowed like slaves ,  kissing caesar's feet; while damned casca ,  like a wild dog ,  struck caesar from behind on the neck .
i’ll give it to him .
the king has heard them ,  but as yet has made no answer .
haven’t you made your other love ,  demetrius—who kicked me with his foot not long ago—call me a goddess and a divine ,  rare ,  precious ,  heavenly creature ?
so what do you say to my suit ?
you may to me ,  and it is most proper you should .
you have a daughter named elizabeth ,  who is virtuous and beautiful ,  aristocratic and full of grace .
i need proof !
isn’t someone waiting for me, cinna?
two thousand ducats a year from his land !
blow me about in winds !
only a mind that's honest could share some of this woe ,  although the main part pertains to you alone .
and its tears are wet .
you a similar loss !
no ,  the man who cannot extol the virtues of my horse from dawn to dusk is not particularly clever .
and that’s true too .
but you’re not going to deliver it ,  are you ?
i wouldn’t be the villain you think i am even if i were offered all of macbeth’s kingdom and the riches of the east too .
goodbye ,  good mr .  love .
but i won’t sleep till i get back .
i think i have a great desire to a bottle of hay .
that will happen before sunset .
the man that has no music in him ,  or is not moved by harmony of sweet sounds ,  is fit for treasons ,  plots ,  and stealing; the movement of his spirit is as dull as night ,  and his affections are as dark as the place between earth and hell .
isn’t my vest just as clean and fresh as the day i put it on ?
was my father a traitor ,  mother ?
i will, my lord.
you’ll see .
yes ,  pilgrim—they have lips that they’re supposed to pray with .
and if i ,  your poor devoted servant ,  may ask you for one small favor ,  you will guarantee my happiness forever .
mistress !
i remember .
and go away ,  witch ,  go away .
have you done everything you could to make him tell you the reason ?
dead?
i’m here; what do you want?
we’re bound to each other in every possible way ,  except we need you to marry us .
a really good exploit ,  a manly enterprise ,  to bring up tears in a poor maid's eyes with your insults !
he hasn’t yet spent the wedding night with her; and she is joy for the gods.
he is so full of courage, and his commendations are food for me, a banquet to me.
lock the doors .
with that i kiss your hand and call you my queen .
oh ,  bottom ,  you’ve changed !
listen ,  clitus .
you are like one of these fellows that, when he enters the bar, throws his sword upon the table, and says ”god, i don’t want to use you!” and by the time he’s drunk the second cup draws the sword on the table, when, indeed, there is no need.
if he loves caesar ,  all that he can do is what he can do to himself — think and die for caesar .
hurry to a convent .
for you are as glorious to this night, that is over my head, as is a wingéd messenger of heaven to the white, upturned, wondering eyes of mortals that fall back to gaze on him when he crosses the slow moving clouds and sails upon the heart of the wind.
my daughter told me everything .
well ,  sir ,  the gown is not for me .
we’ll eat at her place .
yes ,  yes ,  curtis ,  so hurry up and start the fire .
goodness ,  it’s daylight .
i did not kill your husband .
look ,  she’s come home from confession with a happy look on her face .
oh ,  was she now ?
excellent, really, of the chameleon's dish.
i wish it might prove the end of his losses.
now i see it is true .
i never—oh ,  what a mistake ! —revealed myself to him until half an hour ago ,  when i was in my armor .
they all fell asleep together ,  as if they all agreed; they dropped ,  as if hit by a thunder - stroke .
i have forgotten why i called you back.
he will show me the part of heaven where the bachelors sit ,  and i’ll have fun there forever .
a little food and a huge welcome makes a joyous feast .
i never saw you before in my life .
you would be satisfied?
heavens rain grace on that which grows between them!
i’ll write out a detailed inventory of my beauty and label every part .
the crown was offered to him three times ?
o valiant cousin !
pardon my crime ,  sovereign ,  but not my person .
good morning, noble sir!
by our lady, thirty years.
nevertheless ,  it’s all one—the two rivers are as alike as my fingers are to my fingers ,  and there are salmon in both .
i found it in my bedroom.
a piece of ice .
in truth ,  i know it is a sin to be a mocker ,  but him !
rebellion's head will never rise until the wood of birnam rise, and our high-placed macbeth shall live until his dying day, the death of his own time and mortal custom.
come on .
opportunity’s knocking for you ,  and in my imagination i see a crown dropping onto your head .
what’s going on here ,  you secret ,  evil ,  midnight hags ?
live ,  roderigo ,  he calls me to give back all of gold and jewels that i robbed from him ,  as gifts to desdemona; it can’t happen .
i will fight him there .
i sent for cassio to come talk with you .
how silent is this town!
i don’t want to play now .
speak to her, hamlet.
alas ,  you’ve misunderstood everything !
remorseless ,  treacherous ,  sex - obsessed ,  unnatural villain !
i am not treacherous .
so you’ll be hanged at the state’s expense .
prepare the body, then, and follow us.
it doesn’t seem so .
or i’m crazy to think it was so, hearing him talk of juliet ?
if i said something ,  she’d mock me so mercilessly that i’d probably disintegrate into air .
let her have your votes .
why, i beg you?
i’ll expect you .
who are the new commissioners ?
go and get her dressed .
i told him to come back and talk to me in a bit ,  and he promised he would .
i order you to stop !
so stop crying .
haven’t you ,  boy ?
she doesn’t have anything going for her so far .
there ,  my lord .
romeo!
within these three miles, you can see it coming, i say, a moving grove.
do you have what i told you to get ?
yes, by mary, why was he sent to england?
dead ,  dead ?
and then i will be in charge of your sorrows, and lead you even to death.
o ,  the world has not a sweeter creature .
gentlemen all—alas ,  what shall i say ?
what's here ?
pay him six thousand ,  and destroy the promise to pay; double six thousand ,  and then treble that ,  before a friend of this description loses a hair because of bassanio .
let go of me .
that’s burglary ,  that is .
but i didn’t want to be free like this .
now ,  good - bye .
we go around the globe, swifter than the wandering moon.
romeo ,  good night .
what would you have, desdemona?
anyone who says that is a lying piece of garbage .
othello ,  the strength of the place is best known to you; and although we have there a force that is more than adequate ,  yet public opinion ,  a sovereign mistress of effects ,  say we need a safer voice ,  like you .
goodbye!
besides ,  the king’s name is a tower of strength; the opposition doesn’t have that advantage .
hey, hey!
all but metellus cimber, and he's gone to your house to find you.
for what ?
leave me alone .
good morning, brutus; are we troubling you?
that will please god ,  who has him now .
sir ,  it’s the moor .
come, come away!
i’m done, my lord.
who is to be buried in it?
fool ,  speak well of yourself .
tyrant ,  show your face !
give me your hand ,  leonato .
stanley ,  pay attention to your wife’s doings .
his highness is not well .
when she was a little chatterbox, o, there's a nobleman in town, one paris, that would gladly like her attention; but she, good soul, would rather see a toad, a very toad, than to see him.
he laughs at the scars of love when he’s never felt love’s pain.
oh ,  no question—it won’t style itself .
what shall i do?
let go of me !
and is everyone who swears and lies a traitor ?
o ,  i’m sorry i was so angry that i did kill them .
the bud from the moon - goddess’ plant has such force and blessed power over cupid's flower .
thank you, the valiant of this warlike isle, that so approve the moor!
goodbye .
what’s your name ,  please ,  friend ?
go to bed, francisco.
go ,  gratiano ,  run and catch him; give him the ring ,  and bring him ,  if you can ,  to antonio's house .
where is my lady?
very obedient—keep crying . —concerning this—oh ,  what fake emotion ! —i am being ordered home—get away from me ,  i’ll send for you later . —sir ,  i’ll obey the order and return to venice .
you are welcome, masters, welcome, all.
yes, by mary, they are, sir.
oh ,  you men are made of stone !
i brought you here from venice .
hey ,  mountain ,  hey !
now please go in .
o, no, a lantern, slaughtered youth, because juliet lies here, and her beauty makes this tomb a party room full of light.
will you be having dinner with her tonight ?
god bless the island of cyprus and our noble general othello !
be quiet ,  signior gremio .
ah ,  dear ,  if that is true ,  let heaven make poisonous hail grow from my heart ,  and let the first hailstone drop down my throat .
so do i .
some kind of fountain ?
it is gone, and will not answer us.
horatio ,  tell me something .
what dangers are you trying to lead me into ,  cassius ,  that you want me to look inside myself for something that’s not there ?
i'll go to the friar to know his solution .
watch out ,  boy—remember i can whip you .
no, god's my judge, the clerk will never grow a beard that took it.
you can’t speak about something you don’t feel.
and do you mean what you’re saying ,  gratiano ?
good faith ,  how foolish are our minds !
the best news is that we have safely found our king and company: the next, our ship,— which only three hours ago was wrecked, we thought— is water-tight and ready, and bravely rigged as when we first put out to sea.
didn’t you lead him through the glimmering night from perigenia ,  the girl he had just raped ?
first let’s go to dinner .
then, i’ll get you, boy!
they tell me he died well ,  and settled his scores .
it won’t let you eat ,  or talk ,  or sleep; and ,  if it could affect your face and body so much that it conquers your spirit ,  i shouldn’t know you ,  brutus .
let me shake your hands.
write them down together; your name is just as good; say them out loud; your name sounds just as good; think about their importance ,  yours is just as important; use them to contact ghosts ,   " brutus "  will bring a spirit as soon as  " caesar .
did diana ever beautify a grove as much as kate beautifies this room with her queenly movements ?
i beg you ,  don’t let my jealousies be your dishonors ,  only my own safeties .
cheer up as much as you can .
your features ,  god help us !
the only thing i could do with her is to use all that oil as fuel in a lamp and then use that light to run away by .
i know how  too light for a lout like you to catch—though no lighter than i should be .
a wise man and a fool .
i swear i do .
did he say it ?
pardon us ,  dear father .
well ,  we all have our special gifts .
what do you think of me?
heaven will guide its course .
he lies to the heart.
he’s got my vote as i die .
is the news good or bad ?
let’s float through the fog and filthy air .
madam ,  how are you liking this play ?
how did all this happen ?
no ,  that’s the truth .
would ?
she flirted with the messenger boy to exasperate you ,  fire up your passions ,  and make you angry and jealous .
some good men carry him carefully from here; i'll fetch the general's surgeon .
if they see you ,  they will murder you .
poor romeo, he is already dead!
is the building of your love already in ruins ?
get out ,  you horrible bastard ,  or i’ll gouge out your eyes .
no ,  madam; we have selected the necessary things that are useful for our event tomorrow .
there is laughter in heaven when earthly affairs are put right and people unite .
i pray you, go after the lieutenant.
gentle mercutio, put up your sword.
rest assured that we’re going there to use our hands ,  not our tongues .
it’s expressly against the rules of combat .
listen !
then let’s say you are sad because you are not happy; and it’s easy to say that because you laugh and leap and say you are happy ,  because you are not sad .
i’m torn .
good evening, fair gentlewoman.
i’ll observe his looks, i’ll watch his every move.
what’s that noise ?
really, i don’t know why i’m so sad; it wearies me; you say it wearies you; but how i caught it, found it, or came by it, what it’s made of, where it started, i must find out; and sadness makes me so crazy that i don’t know who i am.
people say he’s generous ,  well educated ,  and brave ,  and he’s very attractive .
what do you mean ?
so much so ,  dear lords ,  if i am left behind ,  a moth of peace ,  and he goes to the war ,  the rites for which i love him i am deprived of ,  and i shall endure a sad interval caused by his dear absence .
i’ll write to my stepson richmond on your behalf ,  so that he’ll meet you on the way .
i had no reason ,  no reason .
madam ,  i’d rather sew my lips shut than tell a lie when my life depends upon it .
the question is ,  how would being king change him ?
they have fully sixty thousand fighting men .
what would you do to show yourself your father's son in deed more than in words ?
you yourself shall see the law; because ,  as you insist on justice ,  be assured you shall have justice ,  more than you desire .
crazy for your love?
if it pleases you to dine with us .
messala ,  i have received these letters explaining that young octavius and mark antony are rushing toward philippi and bearing down upon us with a mighty power .
we have in fact seen better days and been summoned to church by the ringing of the holy bell and sat at good men’s feasts and cried tears of pity—therefore ,  sit down and take whatever will satisfy your needs .
caesar and lepidus declared war against pompey .
this one ?
i could teach you how to choose right ,  but then i’m breaking my oath; i’ll never do that; you may not win me; and if you don’t ,  you'll make me wish i had sinned ,  that i had broken my oath .
now let richmond and elizabeth ,  the true heirs of each royal house ,  be joined together !
all right ,  we’ll have a prologue then .
don’t go out today .
come, my lord.
i’m not going to eat dinner tonight .
by mary ,  now i can tell .
i will advise him to speak as he usually does .
dear duff, i beg you, contradict yourself, and say it is not so.
what soldiers, servant?
here is a place reserved, sir.
all the rest of the conspirators acted out of jealousy of great caesar .
cousin, there's an angry break up that’s fallen between him and my lord, but you shall make all well.
that our garments, being, as they were, drenched in the ocean, have, nevertheless, retained their freshness and sheen, seeming to be just cleaned rather than stained with salt water.
when things are at their worst they have to stop ,  or else improve to the way things were before .
if i default ,  he’ll pay you .
no ,  i’ll help too .
i don’t know ,  madam .
yes ,  indeed ,  it was ,  and he pushed it away three times ,  each time more gently than the last; and at each refusal my countrymen shouted .
what cannot be preserved when fortune takes it, patience makes a mockery of her injury.
get some rest ,  tonight we'll feast together .
dance away: don’t delay: all of you meet me by dawn .
i know him well .
tyrrel ,  i mean those bastards in the tower .
i’m the ghost of your father ,  doomed for a certain period of time to walk the earth at night ,  while during the day i’m trapped in the fires of purgatory until i’ve done penance for my past sins .
look ,  you’ve got his wrinkled hands .
you have no reason to say that .
how do you know ?
and so you shall ,  and wherever the guilt is ,  that’s where the punishment will be .
take up the sword again ,  or take me up .
and shall i join forces hell ?
i must be as stupid as an ass—that’s why i don’t know her ,  but she knows me .
i am not guilty of killing lysander; and he isn’t dead ,  as far as i can tell .
may it please your highness, sit.
yes ,  by mary ,  it is ,  but to my mind ,  though i am a native here ,  and know the customs since birth ,  it is a custom more honored in the braking it than the observing it .
i have brought him a present .
why ,  then ,  i think cassio's an honest man .
put your sword away .
it is offended .
no .
why should we do this ?
you must have patience ,  madam .
no ,  none that you have sense enough to make .
you have got more hair on your chin than dobbin my thrill-horse has on his tail.
he’s, in his retirement to bed, exceedingly upset.
there are still some few odd lads missing from your company that you forget.
what’s that noise?
please do this carefully ,  that he will be more in love with her than she is with him .
oh most happy hour !
farewell .
is it true, is it true?
if there’s any reason we shouldn’t get married ,  i urge you to tell me .
a pestilence on him for a crazy rogue!
and long live you to think so !
so tell me ,  grumio ,  how goes the world ?
will the king hear this piece of work ?
i have to stop you ,  cimber .
there is a brief list of how many events there are; make choice of which your highness will see first.
mr. antonio, many times and often in the marketplace you have abused me about my monies and my interest rates; i still have taken it with a patient shrug, because suffering is the badge of all our tribe; you call me misbeliever, cut-throat dog, and spat on my jewish clothes, and all because of using of that which is my own.
i see an angel that sees them .
when hamlet returns, he shall know you’re home.
and i’ve never met any men besides you and my father .
i will lower my voice .
well ,  we shall figure him out .
well ,  let’s sit down and listen to barnardo tell us .
i know that my hour has come .
how lush and lusty the grass looks !
get lost ,  will you ?
now is the wall down between the two neighbors .
the deep of night has crept over our talk, and nature must obey necessity; which we will put off with a little rest.
you had a clarence ,  too ,  and richard killed him .
help us ,  good friends .
and if he fails at that ,  he will find other ways to kill you .
amen to that ,  gonzalo .
you can see how it is all around .
o ,  forgive me my sins !
we have been up and down looking for him .
but shall it be soon ?
i led them on in this frightened ,  distracted state ,  and left sweet
then it’s getting close to the time when the spirit has his habit of walking .
come now!
that “many” may mean the foolish multitudes, that choose by outward appearance, not learning any more than their loving eyes teach, which doesn’t go to the inside but, like the marten, builds on the outside wall in any weather, even in the force of wind and on the road to ruin.
but who would dare tell her ?
ma'am ,  i’d rather— i know your lady goneril doesn’t love her husband .
only why couldn’t i say, "amen"?
for god’s sake ,  sir ,  you’ve been robbed .
what, the fair ophelia?
ran off with a christian !
portia !
i think he got his jacket in italy ,  his tights in france ,  his hat in germany ,  and his behavior everywhere .
love is such a violent emotion that it makes people self - destruct ,  as much as any strong emotion .
the honest men .
i hear that you must ,  and nothing can prevent it ,  be married to this count on next thursday .
diseases grown desperate are best healed by desperate measures ,  or not at all .
alas ,  how are you ,  that you look on empty space ,  and carry on a conversation with the invisible air ?
then god be praised ,  it  petruchio ,  do whatever you like .
to think ,  my lord ,  if you do not delight in man ,  what a somber reception the players shall receive from you .
tut ,  dun's the brownish color of a mouse ,  the constable's own word .
with cassio ?
good morning, my good lords.
what's his weapon ?
exceedingly ,  my lord ,  it is very sultry ,  i can’t tell how .
but what’s he like ?
not now ,  sweet desdemon; some other time .
these two people are as identical as two halves of an apple .
the dance done, i'll watch to see where she’ll stand, and, touching her hand, will make blessed my rude hand.
has he ,  sirs ?
what does that mean, my lord?
if i live to see you married, i have my wish.
keep beating ,  my heart ,  and muscles ,  don’t grow old yet—keep me standing .
with what addition ?
we’ll send mark antony to the senate house ,  and he’ll say that you’re sick today .
at your request ,  monster ,  i will do reason ,  any reason .
it is the cry of women, my good lord.
i should backtrack and begin with how my master ,  don john ,  arranged for the prince ,  claudio ,  and himself to witness this friendly encounter from the orchard .
little ”  again ?
look ,  look !
i wish your ladyship all my heart's content.
know the glove !
if i can get him to drink only one cup ,  with the one he’s already drunk tonight ,  he'll be as full of fighting and insults as my young mistress' dog .
now tell me how long you intend to keep her .
the meat was fine if you wanted to eat it .
let the king have the letters i have sent ,  and come to see me with as much haste as you would fly death .
come ,  hamlet ,  come ,  and take this hand from me .
o sad sympathy !
good - bye .
master ,  if you eat with her ,  bring really long silverware .
but if you just repeat it ,  as many actors do ,  i would prefer the town crier spoke my lines .
jesus ,  let’s kill him !
but who is this person ,  sir ?
why ,  how is it now !
now ,  if courtiers were shepherds ,  that kind of courtesy would be unclean .
ride, ride, messala.
and i’d be surprised if he even did that ,  for he prefers sports ,  fun ,  and friends .
but who is that ?
no .
take it off and throw it away.
did you have to give them everything ?
antonio, thank this gentleman, because, in my opinion, you owe him a lot.
you poisonous slave, fathered by the devil himself through your wicked mother, come out!
and what irks me more than all these things put together is that he does it under the pretense of love—as though for me to eat or sleep would bring on fatal illness or sudden death .
where's publius?
god in heaven bless her !
ring the alarm bell .
answer me .
he will not say so .
as he smiles ,  othello shall go crazy; and his ignorant jealousy must interpret poor cassio's smiles ,  gestures ,  and happy behavior all wrong .
the moon shines bright: in such a night as this, when the sweet wind gently kissed the trees, and they made no noise, in such a night, troilus i think climbed the walls of troy, and sighed his soul toward the grecian tents, where cressida lay that night.
i hate no - good drunks .
so again, goodnight.
my lord ,  this is my daughter here asleep; and this lysander; this demetrius is; this helena ,  old nedar's helena .
ah ,  servant [to 2 capulet] ,  by my faith ,  it grows late; i'm going to sleep .
alas the day, i never gave him reason!
iago beckons me; now he begins the story .
halt !
now i feel my soul leaving .
oh ,  he’s crazy ,  laertes !
she's dead.
one more thing ,  good gentlemen .
well ,  i think that even if it weren’t on record ,  the truth would be remembered from one generation to the next—all the way to doomsday .
there are the players.
i used to think ,  as our politicians do ,  a sin to make a forgery and worked hard at how to forget that learning ,  but ,  sir ,  now it did me a useful service .
what do you want ?
i’ll talk to you more about this some other time .
be buried quickly with her, and so will i.
who should hang them ?
to answer that question ,  i should confess to you .
i sent you a letter while you were carousing in alexandria .
that’s more than we know .
you will be boastful !
yes ,  that’s all true—but what do you mean by it ,  my lord ?
what, not one came in?
let the doors be locked .
or that there were similar men whose heads were in their chests ?
here ,  madam .
very like a whale .
yet calm down .
rogue ,  you’ve lived too long !
if she rants ,  i’ll tell her that she sings as sweetly as a nightingale .
no master ,  sir ,  only a poor man's son; his father ,  although i say it ,  is an honest ,  exceedingly poor man ,  and ,  thank god ,  well enough to live .
what can you do but be happy ?
go bring them all here; i give you power over them .
the king is coming here tonight .
crazy” i call it, because to define true craziness, what is it except to be nothing else but crazy?
and he’s mine too, and to a such bloody degree, that every minute of his being puts a big knot in my stomach; and though i could sweep him from my sight with barefaced power, and bid my will guarantee it, i can’t do it, because certain friends that are both his and mine, whose loves i may not lose, would only protest his fall who i myself struck down.
she was fickle and unfaithful ,  like water .
gentlemen all—alas, what shall i say?
and why ,  wise lady ?
did you pay attention to his words ?
let them be hunted soundly .
i’ll go too and make sure that happens .
i took your hands in friendship ,  but ,  indeed ,  i was distracted when i looked down at caesar .
but life itself ,  my wife ,  and the whole world aren’t more valuable to me than your life is .
most royal sir ,  fleance has escaped .
sir ,  it’s your brother ,  cassius ,  at the door ,  who wants to see you .
i am glad to see you well .
is it possible ?
yes .
heaven and earth!
oh ,  make them joyful !
come ,  last of my friends ,  rest on this rock .
we would not want to die in the company of a man who fears to die with us .
what if i say no ?
good luck .
i’ll tell you later what i’ve thought about this and about these times,; for now, please don’t to try to persuade me any further.
god will free you from blame .
some say the lark makes a sweet division between day and night .
now ,  you’re sociable; now you’re romeo; now you are what you are ,  by art as well as by nature .
ah ,  the countess is coming !
i have it ready for you .
i come to answer your best requests; is it to fly ,  to swim ,  to dive into the fire ,  to ride on the curled clouds; give ariel and all his quality your strong requests .
we’ll talk about this later .
beware of march 15th .
you are to bring his daughter to the supper .
yes .
then senseless priam, seeming to feel this blow, flaming at his top stoops to his base, and, with a hideous crash, cuts off prisoner pyrrhus' ear.
he’s fine and healthy ,  madam .
ha !
that’s the whore’s curse ,  to seduce many men ,  but to be seduced by one .
oh !
putting the juice of it on sleeping eyelids will make or man or woman madly fall in love with the next live creature that it sees.
what you’re doing is the way to make her scorn you continually .
so come with me .
here is a letter found in the pocket of the murdered roderigo ,  and here another .
calmly ,  good laertes .
yes, my lord, just as long as you don’t ask me to forget about it.
get yourself to a convent ,  fast .
o ,  do you think we shall ever meet again ?
the sky’s so dark it looks like it would rain down boiling hot tar if the sea weren’t swelling up to the sky to put its fire out .
when he wakes up !
he’s out of his right mind .
in bed with her ?
i insist ,  don’t be more distressed than i am .
i saw her burial in her relative's vault, and the i rushed to tell you.
i hope that god restores you to health .
the muffled queen ”  is good .
no ,  lovely princess .
but are they safe ,  ariel ?
there’s my dagger  put away your dagger .
no, let's come in.
the terms of our estate may not endure with danger so near to us as his craziness seems to get worse by the hour .
the food that is now as luscious as locusts to him shall be shortly be as bitter as the bitter apple drug .
don’t be afraid ,  even though you see me with a weapon .
was there ever a match put together so quickly ?
no ,  by no means .
honor, riches, marriage-blessing, long life, and many children, hourly joys be always yours!
i don’t understand .
now ,  i swear ,  i’m so angry that i’m shaking all over .
what do you think about it ?
there's no offense ,  my lord .
leave now .
shame come to romeo !
young son, it is arguably a distempered head that bids good morning so soon to your bed.
i'll wager against his drowning ,  even if the ship was no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unsatisfied mistress .
i hear their drums .
it’s your music ,  madam ,  from your house .
let’s say goodbye to him .
when ?
now sir ,  this done ,  as it is a very compelling and natural position ,  who is outstanding and first in the degree of this luck as cassio is ?
o my lord !
well ,  get out of here then !
he’ll make your palace tremble for this insult ,  even if it were the mightiest in all of europe .
i think i do .
come ,  let’s be off !
what wife?
goodbye ,  my lord .
i’ll need to have more proof than this .
is everything ready for that event ?
there on the ground ,  made drunk with his own tears .
so ,  uncle ,  there you are .
good peter, to hide her face, for her fan has the fairer face.
let me have your attention for a moment .
is he still alive ?
my lord high constable ,  the english lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents .
but it is still doubtful whether caesar will come out today or not, because he’s grown superstitious lately, quite a distance from the main opinion he once held about fantasy, dreams, and ceremonies.
what is this?
i hoped you would have been my hamlet's wife, i thought to have decorated your bride-bed, sweet maid, and not your grave.
when we were boys ,  who would believe that there were mountaineers covered with dew like bulls ,  who had throats with pockets of flesh hanging from them ?
i wish my father could see with my eyes .
i loved him ,  as much as any father ever loved his son .
she never was still foolish that was beautiful, because even her folly helped her have an heir.
ring the alarms bell !
my lord ,  here is the entrance .
sailors, my lord, they say, i didn’t see them.
your grief should not be equal to his worth ,  because then your sorrow would never end .
no ,  we can just announce the actor’s name ,  and let his face show through the lion costume ,  and have him say something himself .
good day to you ,  captain fluellen .
if you’re happy with what you’ve won and accept this prize as your blissful destiny ,  then turn to where your lady is ,  and claim her with a loving kiss .  ”
so, i beg you, go with me.
you represented yourself as just a common man .
to know what my errand is ,  madam .
speak.
her sighs and tears are like great winds and floods .
so much i can’t express it .
nothing ,  my lord .
she has sworn not to love; and ,  in that vow ,  i am really dead as i stand here alive to tell you about it now .
i thank you ,  sir .
i’ll tell you what ,  prince: a whole university full of wisecrackers couldn’t change my mood today .
get that fool out of here .
thank you .
we’ll be ready when the time comes .
you want me to copy the embroidery pattern ?
show her in .
i could teach you how to choose right, but then i’m breaking my oath; i’ll never do that; you may not win me; and if you don’t, you'll make me wish i had sinned, that i had broken my oath.
where is he ?
he has legs like a man, and his fins look like arms!
that’s good ,  if he’ll really do it .
only you don’t speak to me.
here's some good stuff!
she’s calling out my name as if i were a bullet murdering her ,  just like i murdered her relative .
the fool’s a good actor .
watch over signior leonato’s house; with the wedding being held there tomorrow ,  there’s a great to - do there tonight .
have you not set lysander, as in scorn, to follow me, and praise my eyes and face?
in the most high and palm tree - like state of rome ,  a little before the mightiest julius caesar was killed ,  the graves had no bodies ,  and the dead in sheets squeaked and gibbered in the roman streets ,  and stars with trains of fire and red morning dews ,  disasters in the sun .
who’s there ?
i will say so.
go ahead ,  you fool .
if you won’t leave ,  then
yes .
will you know them then ?
yes ,  beyond all cures .
believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
shame on it!
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses, nor shall tears or prayers buy your way out.
what does this shouting mean ?
you’re so attractive when you smile .
no ,  i won’t give my medicine away to anyone but the sick .
madam .
if you were civil and had any manners, you wouldn’t insult me so much like this.
if i stay longer ,  i’ll embarrass you and disgrace myself by crying .
is that true ?
listen up ,  you slave .
you say you don’t know what the girl thinks .
why do you ask ?
i’m glad to hear it; because now i shall have reason to show the love and duty that i bear you with a more open spirit .
tell us ,  othello .
that’s the necklace i gave you ,  sir .
as stupid as dirt !
was it you that he rescued ?
he’s a very dishonest ,  puny boy ,  and more cowardly than a rabbit .
what do you say ?
up ,  sword ,  and know a more horrid intention .
by mary, sir, because silver has a sweet sound.
but how?
do you see ,  gentlemen ?
you were tricked into fighting ,  gloucester .
your noble shape is only a form of wax ,  deviating from the valor of a man; your dear love sworn is empty lies ,  killing that love which you have vowed to cherish; your wit ,  that ornament to shape and love ,  disfigured in the conduct of them both ,  like powder in a recruit soldier's flask ,  is set a - fire by your own ignorance ,  and you dismembered by your own defense .
and what poor duty can’t do ,  noble respect takes it in force ,  not merit .
here ,  you there ,  grumio .
yes ,  madam ,  that’s the one .
did you mention that edward’s children are bastards ?
shall any other man be killed besides caesar ?
she said she wished she hadn’t heard it ,  but she also wished there was a man like me for her .
if arguing makes us sweat ,  the real trial will turn that water to blood .
one of the sisters poisoned the other out of love for me ,  and then killed herself .
i wouldn’t even hear your enemy say so ,  and you shall not violently throw those words to my ear ,  to make my ear the keeper of your own report against yourself .
i’d rather bear with you than  well ,  this is the forest of arden .
ah ,  juliet if you’re as happy as i am ,  and you’re better with words ,  tell me about the happiness you imagine we’ll have in our marriage .
that was too much .
but as virtue can never be moved ,  it was courted though lewdness in a shape of heaven ,  and lust ,  though linked to a radiant angel ,  will satisfy itself in a heavenly bed and eat garbage .
if you do bend ,  and pray ,  and play up to me for him ,  i reject you out of my way like a stray dog .
i know they do ,  and i certainly deserve it .
myself ?
to be king in this way is nothing, only to be safely king in this way matters.
well ,  at least that’s something .
did heaven look on and would not take their side ?
i promise i’ll carry the wood faster .
you are welcome.
but have you put the love juice from the flower on the eyes of that athenian ,  as i asked you to do ?
i’ll have you speak out the rest of this soon .
would raise babies and clip coupons .
at least two hours past that .
do so, good messala.
honest ,  yes ,  honest .
fine apparition !
what can i do for you ,  madam ?
what is a traitor?
how long will a man lie in his grave before he starts to rot ?
bassanio ,  we’ll say goodbye for now ,  since you’ve found antonio .
say your prayers; say your prayers!
it’s as if this show describes the argument of the play.
will you be counted in the number of our friends ,  or shall we go on and not depend on you ?
the sky shows countless stars .
where is your army ,  then ,  to beat him back ?
i swear on my life ,  which i take pretty seriously ,  even if i am a magician .
whom should i knock ?
and now you’ve changed ?
stay here a minute.
how wonderful my master is !
take your time .
a very tall man!
is that possible ?
here i am at your service ,  my dear lord .
well ,  we’ve missed the beginning; it’s dead and buried .
the very best at a beast ,  my lord ,  that ever i saw .
so be it .
why so pale ,  my friend ?
sir ,  here’s the queen .
tell us ,  othello .
well ,  i’ll turn pimp and do some occasional pickpocketing .
it’s not manly .
i can swim like a duck ,  i swear .
which their keepers call a lightening before death.
but with a rear - ward following tybalt's death ,   ” romeo is banished .  ”  to speak that word is father ,  mother ,  tybalt ,  romeo ,  juliet ,  all slain ,  all dead .
we don’t have any, sir.
i hope poisonous swampy fog covers her face and ruins her complexion !
over hill ,  over dale ,  through bush ,  through brier ,  over park ,  over pale ,  through flood ,  through fire ,  i am going everywhere ,  quicker than the moon goes through the sky; and i serve the fairy queen ,  to put dewdrops into her eyes upon the green .
look to the queen there ,  ho !
come ,  come away .
i remember the first time caesar ever put it on; it was on a summer's evening ,  in his tent ,  that day he overcame belgium .
listen ,  i hear them .
how can i help you ,  sir ?
you’ve forgotten the will i told you of.
the king comes here tonight.
just as antony loves .
if you get nasty with me ,  pistol ,  i’ll stab you with my sword ,  in fair play .
who are these people ?
my good lord!
talk no more .
honest !
now that i’m done ,  wall can go away .
your part in her you could not keep from death ,  but heaven keeps his part in eternal life .
i’ll think about what you’ve said; i’ll patiently hear what you’ve to say ,  and find a time when i can both meet with you to hear and answer such high things .
demetrius is a worthy gentleman .
the reasons for his death are recorded in the capitol .
quite dumb ?
none of the noble sort would so offend a virgin and try a poor soul's patience, all to make you laugh.
kill men in the dark!
you should go to juliet and dress her up .
sometimes the expression on her face tells me she likes me .
oh ,  tranio ,  what a cruel father he is .
why, man, he stands on top of the narrow world like the colossus of rhodes, and we little men walk under his huge legs and peep about to find ourselves disgraceful graves.
must i remember ?
my lord, i have mementos of yours that i have longed to re-deliver to you for a long time.
the oars were made of silver ,  and the oarsmen rowed in time to flute music .
we come to hate that which controls us .
you’re wrong ,  sir ,  i do care about something .
he did touch on women a bit ,  but his body was aching with fever and he talked about the whore of babylon .
what’s happening to me ,  that i’m frightened of every noise ?
i must think about that .
o me !
sing me now to sleep, then go to your tasks, and let me rest.
that’s a scary thought!
there’s something downright unnatural about it ,  if a philosopher stopped to think about it .
well ,  let’s go on .
blessed pudding !
the crowd calls him lord, and, as the world were just beginning now, old history forgotten, customs not known, they certify and prop up every word, they cry “we choose!
no ,  definitely not !
he and i will make up .
virtue itself doesn’t aim at lying deeds.
look !
he bids them good morning with a modest smile and calls
i swear i am .
it means being faithful and ready to serve ,  just like i am for phoebe .
and so i thank you for your good counsel.
you’re my true and honorable wife ,  as dear to me as are the red tears that visit my sad heart .
o, i am fool for the goddess of luck!
madam ,  not yet; but there is come a messenger ahead of them ,  to show that they are coming .
the moon’s bright tonight .
it’s time to leave .
stained with blood?
o, now, forever farewell to the peaceful mind!
look ,  my little spirit is sitting in a foggy cloud waiting for me .
he used to praise his mother’s nipple before he sucked it .
how absolutely clever this chap is!
how is she doing ?
at home, my lord.
o noble caesar !
her eyes are like april: full of showers .
the law !
one that was a woman ,  sir ,  but ,  rest her soul ,  she's dead .
good day.—please tell me, sir, can you read?
why, do you know if any harm's intended towards him?
who’s in there ?
i wish i had your guarantee ,  because i see that a weak bond holds you; i'll not trust your word .
i’d rather be a weed in a hedge than a rose in my brother’s garden .
forget about him ,  jack !
o ,  you are wise; that is certain .
my ears haven’t yet heard a hundred words of that tongue's speech ,  and yet i know the sound; aren’t you romeo ,  and a montague ?
we are, my lord.
he is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the circle.
no ,  my lord .
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses ,  nor shall tears or prayers buy your way out .
and this may help to support other proofs that look questionable.
rather than see that happen ,  come ,  fate ,  into the arena ,  and fight for me to the death !
stop ,  even if only to kill me .
i pray to god he isn’t .
worse and worse !
then gave i her ,  according to my craft with herbs ,  a sleeping potion; which took effect as i intended ,  for it made her seem dead .
here is some money for you to kill me immediately .
i use it all the time ,  since it’s all that i have .
those dreams are indeed ambition ,  for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream .
now lies he there, and there is no one too poor to pay him respect.
draw the curtains ,  just like that .
when asked the duke and duchess of cornwall if i could take pity on the king and shelter him from the storm ,  they took my house away from me and ordered me never to talk about him ,  lobby for him ,  or support him in any way .
why ,  now i see there's spirit in you; and even from this instant ,  you build a better opinion of yourself than ever before .
when prospero is destroyed .
i will ,  and i’ll know her mind early tomorrow; tonight she's shut up with her grief .
why, then it is not a prison to you, for there is nothing either good or bad but only thinking makes it so.
he’s killed three people ,  and he’s so furious right now that the only thing that will satisfy him is seeing you die .
i urge you to deliver your verdict .
bring the fancy clothes out of my house ,  to use as bait to catch these thieves .
what would you ask ,  laertes ?
i hate the moor ,  and there’s a widespread rumor that he’s slept with my wife .
what’s keeping you ?
word is that richmond is the navy’s admiral .
she is not ,  madam .
hello ,  spirit !
thanks ,  rosencrantz and gentle guildenstern .
my lord acts just as crazy with love as you do .
forgive me ,  darling rosalind .
doesn’t that rising blush suggest that she is virtuous and innocent ?
blessed my foot !
who ,  me ?
and from my soul too or else curse them both .
will either of you give him the message that i’m challenging him to a duel ?
where’s seleucus ?
forgive me of my foul murder !
no ,  let’s not swear an oath .
it won’t make me jealous ,  to say my wife is beautiful ,  cooks well ,  loves company ,  is free of speech ,  sings ,  plays ,  and dances well; where virtue is ,  these are more virtuous .
near to her close and consecrated private place ,  while she was sleeping ,  a crew of actors ,  rude mechanicals ,  that work for bread near athenian shops ,  were met together to rehearse a play intended for great theseus' wedding day .
but i’ll tell you something from my soul .
captain of our fairy band ,  helena is here at hand ,  and the youth mistaken by me pleading for her love; shall we watch what they’re doing ?
come ,  antony and young octavius ,  come ,  revenge yourselves alone on cassius ,  because cassius is weary of the world ,  hated by a friend he loves; threatened by his brother; attacked like a slave; all his faults noted ,  set in a note - book ,  learned and memorized by heart ,  to throw back into my face .
but let’s stop this drinking and get down to business . —god forgive our sins ! —gentlemen ,  let’s get down to business .
i must be one of these same dumb wise men, because gratiano never lets me speak.
o, unbelievable!
forever and forever ,  farewell ,  cassius !
a worthy fool !
don’t be quick to pick a fight ,  but once you’re in one ,  hold your own .
i’ve stayed up all night many times before for less important matters ,  and i’ve never gotten sick .
thank you ,  master .
good morning ,  brother bedford .
we fatten up all other creatures to fatten us up, when we fatten ourselves for maggots.
i will not rise until your highness hears me .
yes, truly, and so do you.
it’s a deal !
please, let me bring you where crabs grow; and i will dig you peanuts with my long nails; i’ll show you a bird's nest, and teach you how to catch the nimble monkey; i'll bring you to clustering filbert nuts, and sometimes i'll get you young falcons from the rock.
when i could see ,  i didn’t always see clearly .
there's never a villain dwelling in all denmark except that he's an arrant knave .
very serious ,  and i’m sure it’s because of beatrice .
something is rotten in the state of denmark.
but as it is, we can’t dismiss him: he makes our fire, fetches in our wood; and serves in jobs that are to our advantage.—what hey!
the day will come when you’ll wish i could help you cast spells against this poisonous ,  hunchbacked toad .
because i am all of the subjects that you have ,  who was first my own king; and here you chain me to this hard rock ,  while you keep from me the rest of the island .
we haven’t yet encountered that danger ,  and the best thing to do is avoid it entirely .
o, behold, the riches of the ship is come on shore!
close the garden door and leave me alone to hear his message .
the doors are broken .
we’ll all join hands and sing ,  and bless this place with our fairy grace .
then hear me ,  gracious sovereign ,  and all you peers who owe your lives and duty to this imperial throne .
give me your hand .
i'll see it is done .
villainy ,  villainy ,  villainy !
he has ,  my lord .
so cheer up ,  there’s still hope for you ,  man .
i thought you were resolved to do this .
by that kind of logic ,  i should hate orlando ,  since my father hates his father .
it is not good and it cannot come to good.
this is a small house .
what should i say to her ?
wouldn’t that have been just as appropriate ?
a pickaxe and a spade ,  a spade ,  for and a shrouding sheet ,  oe a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is ptoper .
it’s true .
my next is 'most fair pyramus.
what's the matter ?
meanwhile ,  their  they’ve said their prayers ,  and now they wait for death .
be loud and obnoxious .
come here ,  captain .
i remember when i was in love ,  i broke my sword on a stone ,  and told him to take that for coming at night to see jane smile .
we’re talking here in a public place .
come, sir, i will fight you.
why, look there!
give me your hand .
i’ll just stay here till the storm passes .
i believe it won’t stop moving and stand upright till richard wears the wreath of the realm .
because of your advice and your help ,  i have a high position now .
but let me hear the letter from your friend .
i will ,  sir .
o you othello, that was once so good, fallen in the plan of a damned slave, what shall be said to you?
you’re not leaving the house today .
shall i accompany your grace ?
who is he that was not born of woman?
a fish: he smells like a fish: a very old and fish-like smell; a kind that’s not like the freshest small fish.
come ,  firebrands ,  over here !
i’ll go back to the duke of gloucester and tell him so .
i will set down what she says ,  to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly .
tell me !
but this is a sure thing: the snake’s an odd snake .
how long has he been there ?
i have as much of this skill as you, but still i couldn’t bear such new like that.
you must have figured out who i am .
come ,  now a dance and a fairy song ,  then ,  for the third part of a minute ,  leave here ,  some to kill bugs in the musk - rose buds ,  some to kill red - mice for their leather wings ,  to make my small elves coats; and some to quiet the noisy owl ,  that nightly hoots and wonders about us .
i’ll remember.
she says that you should come to her .
why, wouldn’t you?
i tell you ,  there are good men born at monmouth .
why not ?
then die and be damned !
welcome, iago; we must go to the guard.
in cash .
we’ll perform all the holy rites .
please ,  tell me more .
will i be married tomorrow morning ?
he  i can’t tell what’s going on .
can you bring me to the party?
oh ,  antony ,  don’t beg us to kill you .
never make known what you have seen tonight.
oh ,  sir toby ,  stop !
yes .
fare you well ,  my dove !
that’s enough ,  dromio ,  please .
but i’ll punish them thoroughly .
oh ,  conspiracy ,  are you ashamed to show your face even at night ,  when evil things are most free ?
come, night that closes the eyes, cover the tender eye of pitiful day; and, with your bloody and invisible hand, cancel and tear to pieces that great deed which keeps me pale!
treason !
i’ll get there first and tell him what we found out .
i wouldn’t want to stay here and make you angry .
draws.
all right ,  stop this .
in the first act he is an infant ,  whimpering and puking in his nurse’s arms .
the air bites sharply ,  it is very cold .
because we are servants ,  and you think we are ruffians ,  you'd have your daughter covered with a african horse; you'd have your nephews neigh to you; you'd have chargers for cousins and small spanish horses for germans .
it really is good to see you .
i know a terrific wench .
i am finished .
if his majesty has anything for us to do ,  we shall express our duty in person ,  and let him know so .
give me a living reason why she's unfaithful .
let’s not argue here in front of both our armies ,  which ought to see nothing but love between us .
what does he look like ,  biondello ?
leave .
o you gods, make me worthy of this noble wife!
i’ll try talking to him again .
oh ,  she shows the torches how to burn bright !
yes ,  it does shine that night .
i found it in my room ,  and iago just confessed that he put it there for his own purposes .
he never did anything in his whole life that looked as good as the way he died .
stay calm .
what ,  man !
yes ,  yes !
who were you following with your sword ?
i wish you were happy to stay and hear his true confession .
well ,  i understand .
i have a head ,  sir ,  that will find out where the logs are ,  i don’t have to bother peter .
if you’re calling me jephthah ,  my lord ,  i do have a daughter i love more than anything ,  yes .
that was one hit .
i was never disloyal ,  and i never will be .
this is what calphurnia’s dream means .
did you send for him ,  sir ?
you don’t pray well .
i’m afraid the people are going to choose caesar for their king.
with all my heart ,  i’ll join you .
let us hurry to hear it, and call the noblest to hear it too.
all of which ,  sir ,  although i believe it most powerfully and potently ,  yet i think it was dishonest to have written it like this ,  because you yourself ,  sir ,  should be old as i am ,  if ,  like a crab ,  you could go backward .
here the count lies slain, and juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead, who has been buried in this tomb for two days.
you shall be as free as the mountain winds if you only do exactly every detail of my command.
oh me !
a greater power than we can contradict has opposed our plans.
don’t be disturbed by my illness .
i will do so .
if i’m killed ,  it will only be the death of a man who was willing to be dead .
nurse, come back again; i have remembered, you can hear our conversation.
you may be rightly just, whatever i shall think.
donalbain .
they fled toward peloponnesus .
show .
his beard was grizzly, no?
why ,  what did he do ?
by mary, go before him to field, he'll be your follower.
you’ve bet on the weaker fencer .
oh ,  it’s as easy as lying .
o ,  it is evil in her .
it’s a shame that you walk the streets with all the honest men .
nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some reason.
if he were dead ,  you’d be weeping for him .
but he kept chattering so foolishly ,  talking about you in such insulting and despicable terms ,  that it was hard for me to restrain myself .
i should go to the barber’s ,  monsieur ,  because i think i’m getting really hairy around the face .
sorry ,  sir ?
it is for the head .
but stay;—oh spite!
no ,  it would be impossible .
oh margaret ,  margaret ,  your heavy curse has now landed on poor hastings’s miserable head !
i beg you to let me speak with you ,  o ,  my good lord !
i’ll hear cassius, and compare their reasons, once they have all been told.
there are ways to regain the general again.
bring down that top sail !
therefore your earliness assures me that you are aroused by some disturbance in your mind; or if that’s not it, then i guess right, our romeo has not been in bed tonight.
you’re brave gentlemen .
in that case ,  the wise gods deny our prayers for our own good .
the fool will stay .
being in the city was better for them in regards to their reputation and their profits.
oh ,  then you never loved as wholeheartedly as me .
tell it, othello.
who now owes the price of his dear blood ?
indeed i did ,  my lord .
gentlemen ,  for shame !
will you dine with me tomorrow?
poor harry of england !
call the numbskull back in here .
i’m dying for food ,  so let me have some .
if i can catch him once at a disadvantage, i’ll feed the ancient grudge i bear him until it’s fat.
then ,  window ,  let day in ,  and let life out .
you may do what you want to ,  but i say he's a tried and valiant soldier .
if you shut the windows ,  it will pour out the keyhole .
where’s the queen ?
happy with hermia ?
but where is he ?
i don’t value my life at the price of a pin, and as for my soul, what can it do to that, being a thing that is immortal as it is?
what of that?
romeo ,  come here; come here ,  you fearful man .
o lord, they’re fighting!
look ,  let’s stay here tonight .
if you poison us ,  don’t we die ?
sweet phoebe ,  have pity on me .
do you see anything in that ?
no ,  but to live in the rotten sweat of an greasy bed ,  stewed in corruption ,  using sweet words and making love over the nasty pig sty .
a gentler judgment vanished from his lips, not your body's death, but your body's banishment.
no ,  don’t let me .
the other motive, why i couldn’t go to a public court, is the great love the people of this country have for him, who, dipping all his faults in their affection, would, like the spring that turn wood to stone, convert his crimes to graces, so that my actions, not at all popular with the masses, would have reflected badly on me, and not be taken as i intended them.
as for monsieur malvolio ,  let me take care of him .
the highest - ranking ?
oh ,  unfaithful lover !
then, i’ll give it to you as payment.
we have to get out of here ,  old man .
on thursday ,  it’ll be then .
okay ,  i will—on fridays and saturdays ,  and the rest .
help, ho!
i sent him away, and gave him a good excuse for your fit; i told him to come back soon and speak here with me; which he promised to do.
you should not have believed me ,  for virtue can’t graft a new plant onto our old stock but we shall relish of it .
let’s have one ,  good soldier .
sir ,  his refinement suffers no lie from you ,  although ,  i know ,  to divide him like an inventor would make the memory dizzy with arithmetic ,  and yet not off course ,  in regard to his quick sail .
don’t shed even one tear .
but if you fail ,  you have to leave immediately .
the poor monster's my subject, and he shall not suffer indignity.
caesar is upset .
father ,  go ahead .
why should i ,  mother ?
he doesn’t know yet about his honorable fortune .
it should seem ,  then ,  that dobbin's tail grows backward; i am sure he had more hair on his tail than i have on my face when i last saw him .
roderigo killed ?
caesar’s better qualities exist in brutus ,  and we will crown him .
that’s for to me to decide .
but one, poor one, one poor and loving child, but one thing to rejoice and take comfort in, and cruel death has taken it from my sight!
you be my witness that, against my will, as pompey was, i am compelled to set all our liberties on one battle.
has there ever been a time—i’d really like to know—when i’ve definitely said something was true ,  and it turned out not to be true ?
i have observed that the air is delicate in areas where they frequently breed and visit.
eat your dinner and pay no attention to him .
i’ll see what being sorry does.
and ,  to sink in it ,  you should outweigh love; too great oppression for a tender feeling .
that’s some nap .
was he pale or red?
you aren’t wood ,  you aren’t stones—you’re men .
where are my father and my mother, nurse?
the world is not your friend ,  and neither is the law .
ok. what’s the bet?
all right ,  i will .
i don’t completely distrust you .
but until that time ,  i receive your offered love like love ,  and won’t do it wrong .
filthy hags !
didn’t you go to her for a purse full of ducats ?
we’ve been waiting a long time for this day .
i'd believe as quickly that this whole earth may be bored ,  and that the moon may creep through the centre and so disrupt her brother's noontide with the other side of the world .
where?
the armies have merely changed places ,  titinius ,  because octavius has been overthrown by noble brutus’s forces at the very moment that antony overthrew cassius’s legions .
there was a kind of war in my brain that wouldn’t let me sleep .
here, peter quince.
love give me strength!
neither good nor bad .
i won’t refuse you anything .
free from the bondage you are in ,  messala .
yes ,  i’ve been responsible for his upbringing .
as you please .
i am not a villain .
and  madam ,  with all my heart .
my husband is on earth, my faith in heaven.
i don’t dare to stay longer .
when these mutual things lead the way, the teacher and the main exercise follow close behind, to the obvious conclusion.
it seems to be the truth.
my daughter ,  susan ,  and she god rest all christian souls !
well ,  the peace you pleaded for so eloquently just now lies in his answer .
if you’re as poor a subject as he is a king ,  you definitely are poor .
but ,  sir ,  here comes your servant .
thieves !
he’s slain.
my good lord !
where's your father ?
two unlucky children of these enemy families become lovers and commit suicide .
my life has run its circle .
please ,  let me bring you where crabs grow; and i will dig you peanuts with my long nails; i’ll show you a bird's nest ,  and teach you how to catch the nimble monkey; i'll bring you to clustering filbert nuts ,  and sometimes i'll get you young falcons from the rock .
i didn’t give her any ring .
sit down awhile, and let us tell you once again, you who is so stubborn in not believing our story, what we have seen these last two nights.
what conquest does he bring home?
yes, go ahead and smile on her; i will trap you in your own courtship.
i feel sicker and sicker .
goodbye.
yes, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
they came so close with their lips that their breaths hugged each other.
your brother don john the bastard has run away from messina .
alas, what cry is that?
no, not until thursday.
those men you just mentioned will be beheaded today .
will you laugh me asleep, because i am exhausted?
in his wild fit, hearing something stir behind the curtain, he whips out his knife, cries 'a rat, a rat!
unreal mockery, here!
why ,  last night .
tybalt, my cousin!
good idea .
absolutely .
you have disrupted the fun ,  broken up a good party ,  with very admirable chaos .
what ,  did my daughter go to friar lawrence ?
find out where the jew’s house is .
i should have waited to tell you my news .
some man or other must look like a wall ,  and let him have some plaster ,  or some loam ,  or some rough - cast cement around him to signify the wall ,  and let him hold his fingers open like this ,  and through that cranny ,  pyramus and thisbe will whisper .
ready ,  ready; and here's a marvelously convenient place for our rehearsal .
god forbid that i should interrupt religion!
truly ,  no—no more than is reasonable .
hail ,  brave friend !
welcome here.
let me go .
sailors ,  sir .
he’s evaded love once or twice ,  and since then cupid doesn’t dare to shoot at him .
so ,  take me ,  death !
this is that very mab that braids the manes of horses in the night; and bakes tangled messes of hair into foul dirty hairs ,  which ,  once untangled ,  signals the beginning of much misfortune .
delighted to stay ?
shame on you ,  you slanderer !
last night ,  when that star to the west of the north star had traveled across the night sky to that point where it’s shining now ,  at one o'clock ,  marcellus and i— quiet ,  shut up !
what are you going to do for her ?
what ?
please go inside .
you lie .
check on your daughter ,  your house ,  your money !
those who have done this deed are honorable .
it will only create a scab and film over the ulcer ,  while rotten corruption ,  working within everything ,  infects it unseen .
they’re certainly a peaceful couple !
but what love could make my lysander leave me ?
your sister’s the better soldier of the two .
come on ,  you’re drunk .
i got drunk !
madam ,  hurry as fast as you can get out of my court .
doctor ,  the barons desert me .
i’ll bet we’re both thinking the same thing ,  master .
your dinner and the generous islanders you invited ,  wait for your presence .
who’s next ?
you’re wrong ,  sir ,  very wrong .
i’ll write down what she says ,  so i’ll remember it better .
madam !
therefore ,  from your many years of experience in these matters ,  give me some advice now ,  or ,  look ,  between my will to go the limit and me ,  this bloody knife shall play the umpire ,  deciding the problem that your many years’ experience could bring to an honorable resolution .
what are you going to do ?
tonight i’m having a feast that we’ve celebrated for many years .
he is not the flower of courtesy ,  but i'll guarantee that he is as gentle as a lamb .
will your highness please grace us with your royal company ?
no ,  i’m telling you ,  put on this robe and beard .
i’m glad you’re insane enough to admit it in front of me .
a most nasty monster!
neighbors ,  hello .
i’ve got my answer .
my lord ,  most humbly on bended knee i beg you to grant me the leading of the vanguard .
goodbye ,  brave moor; be kind to desdemona .
so rosencrantz and guildenstern are in for it .
then go quickly to friar lawrence' cell; a husband waits there to make you a wife .
and has given proper appearance to his speech ,  my lord ,  with almost all the holy vows of heaven .
make cassio angry somehow ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or insulting his military skills ,  or however else you want .
by the world, i think my wife is honest, and think she is not; i think that you are just, and think you are not.
it’ll be worth your while .
so, good night to you all.
then if he says he loves you, you would be wise to believe it because then being in his particular act and place may do what he says, which is what the majority of people in of denmark go along with.
how !
well, my lord.
for heaven’s sake ,  help me !
a good argument; therefore, listen to me, hermia.
what mercy can you give him ,  antonio ?
i don’t dare to stay longer.
be quick for a while and let the one who lives the longest take everything .
although i have slain men during a war, i believe it is a grave matter of the conscience to do a premeditated murder.
pray god does some surgery on you: you need to be fixed .
has banquo gone from court?
my father had a daughter who loved a man in the same way that i might love you ,  if i were a woman .
these fellows have some soul; and someone like that is how i am .
make an attempt .
i’ve sworn i’ll never sleep with him or talk to him again .
i curse her .
i must wake her up .
all hail ,  macbeth !
it is true, very worthy signior; the duke's in council, and your noble self, i am sure, is sent for.
flies are healthier and more honorable and better suited for romance than romeo .
rightly to be great is not to move without great argument, but to find quarrel greatly in worthless land when honor’s at stake.
and here comes pyramus .
here ,  my lord .
have i hugged you yet ?
your wives ,  your daughters ,  your matrons ,  and your maids ,  could not fill up the cistern of my lust ,  and my desire would overcome all international factions that did oppose my will .
or in the power of reason .
then ,  lord have mercy on me !
i’m glad about that .
we’ll drive them to a
you have always been the father of good news.
hermia is lucky ,  wherever she is ,  because she has beautiful eyes .
what else could you possibly think of me ?
you’ll never hear from the herald again .
will you hear some music, my sweet love?
how did you divide yourself in two ?
and here’s another poem ,  which i stole from my cousin’s pocket—in her handwriting and all about her adoration for benedick .
and shylock ,  for his own part ,  knew the bird was ready to fly; and then it is the nature of them all to leave the nest .
you don’t pray well.
yes ,  you did ,  sir .
there are only friends here .
ready.
why are the branches still living when the root is gone ?
don’t be upset .
i’ll send tomorrow.
have they returned ?
the king ,  the king's to blame .
no, by heaven.
hey ,  open the door !
i'll tell you before you ask me again.
we still know you are a holy man.
the alcohol that got the servants drunk has made me bold .
oh night ,  which ever is when day is not !
my ever - gentle cousin ,  welcome here .
but since the gibe glanced off me ,  ten to one it hit you both straight on .
o ,  tell me ,  friar ,  tell me ,  in what vile part of this anatomy does my name live ?
let’s go at it ,  coward !
not me .
yes .
beautiful tyrant!
we have met with foes that fight beside us .
what, now?
you ,  as sure as your name’s roderigo ,  if i were the moor i wouldn’t want to be iago .
yes ,  yes .
this looks like an abbey .
for the same thing .
beautiful portia's picture !
do you doubt that ?
now i'll tell you without asking.
don’t trust trebonius .
no ,  in all confidence ,  the turks are not going to rhodes .
i don’t know either.
is that the latest?
if you tickle us, don’t we laugh?
as caesar loved me, i weep for him; as he was fortunate, i rejoice at it; as he was valiant, i honor him; but, as he was ambitious, i killed him.
o brother montague ,  give me your hand .
look here ,  here he is ,  disfigured ,  as you can see ,  by traitors .
here's cassio ,  hurt by villains .
hello ,  mortal !
love takes the meaning in love's conversation.
at full speed, at full speed; or i'll cry a match.
with him out of venice ,  i can make whatever bargains i want when i lend money . —go ,  tubal .
will you pluck your sword out of its holder by the handle ?
for i never saw true beauty till this night.
cheer yourself .
give me one good reason to think she’s cheating on me .
murder!
if not ,  it’s true ,  this parting was well done .
greed has been the downfall of many kings .
hurry up ,  hurry up !  .
yes ,  and he’s been carried off the field .
not yet .
i think our garments are now as fresh as they were when we first put them in africa, at the wedding of the king's fair daughter, claribel, to the king of tunis.
sure ,  i hate her ,  but i wouldn’t hurt her .
when marcus brutus grows so greedy as to engage his friend in such battles ,  be ready ,  gods ,  with all your thunderbolts ,  cut him into pieces !
this may have seemed like the pinnacle of sadness ,  but if i went on i could outdo it .
the gates of mercy will be closed by then ,  and harsh and hard - hearted soldiers ,  who have tasted blood ,  will have free reign to commit whatever violence they want ,  mowing down your lovely young virgins and budding infants .
you seem to understand me, since you each are laying a scrawny finger upon your skinny lips.
good.
look here ,  sir ,  first ask what danes are in paris ,  and how ,  and who ,  what means ,  and where they live ,  what company ,  at what expense ,  and finding ,  by this talking around and drift of questions ,  that they who do know my son ,  come nearer to you than your particular questions will touch it .
you will do it ,  sir ,  really .
i repeat ,  he’s in love .
but quiet!
don’t get up yet .
and he told us to follow him to the temple .
but that would ruin his reputation !
he goes forth to war bravely .
dead .
no ,  romeo will respond to the letter’s writer ,  telling him whether he accepts the challenge .
what do you mean by that ?
pass the word along.
o my soul's joy !
this chest threatens; men that gamble everything do it in hope of a better advantage: a golden mind doesn’t stoop to shows of scum; then i won’t give or gamble anything for lead.
you told me they escaped into this forest .
farewell .
i come to go get you to the senate - house .
the rapier and the dagger .
lord ,  lord !
she’s phoebe - ing me .
o inhuman dog !
he’s getting crazy with expectation!
they have letters for him.
but action speaks louder than words ,  so i’ll cut short these polite words .
and you told me bury love.
my ears haven’t yet heard a hundred words of that tongue's speech, and yet i know the sound; aren’t you romeo, and a montague?
and i was right ,  because where’s your husband now ?
i am for you.
my dearest relative ,  i’m begging you ,  pull yourself together .
goodbye .
she’s the reason i’m here .
well ,  happiness to their sheets !
she says enough; yet she's a simple rabbit that cannot say as much .
who’s there ,  in the other devil’s name ?
who are you ?
is it a custom?
have i accomplished so much in battle ,  but now i’m afraid to tell some old men the truth ?
the queen your mother is upset ,  and sent me to see you .
i humbly thank you for it.
what color ,  madam ?
no ,  he’s in a place worse than hell .
shame on it !
you said it when you were furious .
i slept with cassio lately, and, being troubled with a raging tooth, i could not sleep.
no ,  uncle ,  i won’t be married .
noble buckingham ,  your promise is like medicine to my ailing heart .
i have no interest in getting mixed up with the devil .
i see that you don’t know me.
or of a courtier, which could say 'good morrow, sweet lord!
a friendly eye could never see such faults .
good idea .
i’ll say you’re not feeling well .
no, he's a flower, i believe, a very flower.
i drink in the air before me, and return before your pulse beats twice.
yes ,  indeed they are .
pay attention, bassanio, the devil can cite scripture for his purpose.
the players cannot keep a secret, they'll tell all.
we'll hear the will.
yeah ,  that would get every single one of us executed .
a witty if a cynical reply .
you haven’t seen him since ?
ephesus now what do you think ?
though our lives — your spirits shine through you.
what ,  can’t hear me ?
if you say so, go away, and prove it too.
i think she’ll be a better soldier .
to find you.
sir topas !
who's there?
take this from this ,  if this isn’t the case now .
macbeth will go there to learn his destiny .
i did .
macduff is missing and your noble son .
since i’m suddenly all the rage ,  it will be worth the cost .
how infinite in faculties!
why are your swords drawn?
hold on, take these keys and go get more spices, nurse.
he lies to the heart .
make room ,  and let him stand before us .
she would make a good wife for benedick .
didn’t he just leave?
servant, go get drier logs.
and i too ?
make yourself comfortable .
i know you .
between who ?
therefore tell me ,  fairest katherine ,  will you have me ?
she creeps along .
now, by my virginity at twelve years old, i told her to come.
to speak honestly, and with no addition to the facts, we go to gain a little patch of ground that’s not worth anything except its name.
what do you say ?
fast and pray to stave off temptations .
sir ,  i must get that diamond ring back from you .
donalbain .
i’m coming to end your pursuit of me and leave me to my grief .
it would be a pity to throw them away for nothing ,  but if it’s a matter of choosing between them and a great cause ,  then they’re worthless .
o, look!
a mature age .
i think all tendencies to jealousy were burned out of him by the sun of his native land .
no, only in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
we all stand up against the spirit of caesar ,  and ,  in the spirit of men ,  there is no blood .
now ,  how do you look now ?
and now i’ll do it .
for shame ,  for shame !
this hand of yours requires a vacation from liberty, fasting, and prayer, much punishment, holy exercise, because here's a young and sweating devil here that commonly rebels.
i’ll do what i can ,  more than i’d do for myself .
then murder's out of tune, and sweet revenge grows harsh.
i will not control my tongue; i have to speak.
if to preserve this body for my lord from any other evil unlawful touch is not to be a prostitute ,  i am none .
this, by his voice, should be a montague.
oh ,  noble weakness !
let him thank me ,  who helped him get there .
well moused, lion.
i have no knowledge of the king - becoming graces ,  such as justice ,  verity ,  temperance ,  stableness ,  bounty ,  perseverance ,  mercy ,  lowliness ,  devotion ,  patience ,  courage ,  fortitude ,  but i only abound in the division of each several crime ,  acting it many ways .
the dictator, custom, very grave senators, has made the stone and steel couch of war my feather bed three times.
how shall you hope for mercy, giving none?
there's millions now alive that nightly lie in those adulterous beds which they dare to swear is the first time.
what beard would be best to play it in ?
go back to where you’re staying and go to sleep .
your grace can do whatever he wants .
so you had time as you were dying to look around ?
what's the matter ?
now, fellow, what's there?
tell me truthfully ,  do you love my sister ?
my mind and courage will never falter with doubt or shake with fear .
well ,  i’ll go hide the body in some hole until the duke gives orders for his burial .
only if the hearer is a fool or a coward .
you’re mistaken .
my heart is wonderfully light since this same wayward girl is so reformed.
remember who liked your yellow stockings— ”  your yellow stockings ?
what an ogre you are to slander someone you don’t know ,  and who doesn’t know you !
would you take it away?
no.
i’m off to venice to buy outfits for the wedding .
my gentle puck ,  come here .
o gertrude ,  let’s go !
i ask that none of you leave ,  except myself ,  until antony has finished .
let me see philostrate .
a man ,  young lady !
i’d risk my soul for that .
as you shall prove us to be, praise us.
your crown burns my eyeballs.
and so did i .
will you go to them?
i humbly thank you ,  sir .
where are you going?
she’s ready to go ,  but she’ll never return .
go ahead; go; provide your money .
we will have vengeance for it, don’t worry about that.
you conspire against your friend, iago, if you only think him wronged and won’t let him be anything but a stranger to your thoughts.
if you say so ,  i hope you will not kill me .
by inheritance ,  i know i am baron of glamis; only how am i baron of cawdor ?
what's here?
no, don’t go back.
travelers have never told lies ,  no matter what the fools at home accuse them of .
what shall i do?
if they told the truth ,  as their speeches shine on you ,  macbeth ,  why ,  by the truths made good on you ,  might they not be my prophecies as well ,  and set up my hopes ?
he can’t be fortune; he’s only fortune’s errand boy .
you’d better tell antonio what you heard; still ,  don’t tell him without warning because it may be too painful .
things have fallen out, sir, so unluckily that we have had no time to talk to our daughter.
how weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable all the habits of this world seem to me!
order supplies for your trip and choose your traveling companions .
yes ,  but the mustard is probably too hot .
he answered 'don’t hurry back; don’t be careless with business for my sake ,  bassanio ,  but wait until your plans are realized; and for the jew's promise to pay which he has from me ,  don’t let it enter your mind ,  thinking about love: be happy ,  and use your main thoughts for courtship ,  and such beautiful shows of love that may agree with you there .  ”  and even there ,  his eyes being big with tears ,  turning his face away ,  he put his hands behind him ,  and with affection that was amazingly easy to feel ,  he shook and shook bassanio's hand ,  and they parted like that .
sir, i cannot.
you have no weapon ,  and must be forced to suffer .
what does you gracious figure want?
well, let's go, and tell macbeth how much we did.
your father was an extremely moral man ,  and religious people get odd ideas on their deathbeds .
yes ,  with cassio .
for my own part, i’ll be glad to learn from more capable men.
what, not a whore?
here comes the lady; let her verify it.
if he hears you ,  you will make him angry .
who ever would have thought it ?
o loving hate!
some wine, ho!
o peer !
well ,  then it will be dry .
romans ,  countrymen ,  and friends !
nor none ,  in my mind ,  now you give her up .
alas ,  what cry is that ?
play me some music .
if get the opportunity ,  i will find where truth is hidden ,  though it were hidden indeed within the centre of the man .
no ,  caesar shall not .
hail!
i will ,  lady .
what ,  sir ,  how !
give me your torch ,  boy .
should we part ,  sweet girl ?
are you trying to sleep with him ?
i had a son ,  whom i’ve legally disowned .
my heart is ten times lighter than my looks .
that’s the next thing on the agenda .
yes ,  yes .
speak, hands, for me!
he really is the most skillful ,  bloodthirsty ,  and dangerous opponent you can find in illyria .
should i blab to her that you’re coming ?
but ,  like a sickness ,  i hated the taste this food; but ,  now healthy ,  my natural tastes restored ,  now i wish it ,  love it ,  long for it ,  and will for evermore be true to it .
if she is silent and won’t speak at all ,  i’ll praise her chattiness and say she speaks with piercing eloquence .
let me live here forever .
you know what i intend .
what, my young lady and mistress!
roderigo’s been killed ?
don’t deny to him that you love me.
too fast is as bad as too slow .
hey ,  look over there !
why do you cross me in this command?
if he doesn’t love her ,  and he’s not gone crazy because of love ,  let me be no assistant for a state ,  but be a farmer and horse carter .
look for the news .
madam, i am here.
husband ,  i’ll eat with you in private today and hear your confession about all the pranks you’ve pulled .
was that rejection done like cassius?
o heavy burden !
he'll watch the clock all night if drink doesn’t rock his cradle.
he’ll accompany my wife ,  and bring whatever else you think i might need .
you look like you have something more to say .
they’re more like how you would act if you were a woman telling a scary story by the fireside in front of her grandmother .
i thank you for that quip ,  good tranio .
oh ,  mischief has ruined our plans !
no woman’s heart is big enough to hold all my love .
i second that
thieves!
but antonio is certainly bankrupt.
yes ,  i want it ,  and i’ll get it .
o my heart !
remember to possess his books first, because, without them, he's only a fool, as i am, and hasn’t one spirit to command: they all hate him as deeply as i do.
not shafalus to procrus was so true.
i tell you yet again, banquo's buried; he cannot come out on his grave.
that’s great .
what a day this is !
be quick about it .
it would have been better if ,  after she said ,   “ tybalt’s dead ,  ”  she told me my mother or my father ,  or both ,  were gone .
tongue ,  do not speak .
be careful; be perfect; goodbye .
oh ,  i’d kill that bastard cassio forty thousand times if i could !
we'll leave you, brutus;— and, friends, scatter yourselves, but all remember what you’ve said, and show yourselves to be true romans.
isn’t today the day when hermia has to tell us her decision about whether she’ll marry demetrius ?
who is that gentleman ?
how old is she ?
watch cassius .
aren’t they at this very moment on the western shore helping the rebels land safely from their ships ?
o, still defend me, friends!
and what oath do we need other than that we honest men have told each other that this will happen or we will die trying ?
hell is murky!
let that satisfy you .
widow dido,” you said?
did you hear that ?
no ,  stop .
is this a prologue or a ring of flowers ?
and i would die a thousand deaths cheerfully ,  if it made your life easier .
do you see that cloud over there that's almost in shape of a camel?
i’m beginning to understand what you want me to do .
damn your voice ,  you loud ,  cursing ,  selfish dog !
i want to use this money to set my father free .
priest .
you ,  roderigo !
why,“one fair daughter, and no more, the which he loved passing well.” still harping on my daughter.
we did a lot of drinking in egypt .
the table's full.
herein i will teach you how you shall bid god to reward us for your pains, and thank us for your trouble.
our fate depends on this chance .
but ,  o vain boast !
i could swear this is the real vincentio .
i won’t fail .
then turn your noble face away from me ,  that face that the whole world adores .
i bring you news of the prince's sentence .
now he feels his title hang loose about him ,  like a giant's robe upon a dwarfish thief .
we won’t hold back any of our wisdom .
i will work it out ,  and everything will be fine ,  i guarantee you ,  wife .
by-and-by is easily said.
my lord?
tell me, has this thing appeared again tonight?
but i’ll get you a candle and paper and ink .
what performances have been prepared ?
who chooses me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  as much as he deserves !
fathers ,  never trust your daughters just because they act obedient and innocent .
is it all come to this ?
when?
every town and port is crawling with henchmen on the lookout ,  waiting to capture me .
you smiled, instilled with strength from heaven, when i have covered the sea with salty tears, groaning under my load, which raised in me a new strength, to put with whatever should follow.
these are ugly antics .
look ,  how our partner's in such deep thought .
oh ,  evil ,  evil !
but how will we keep it from being passed now ,  my lord ?
when should the three of us meet again ?
she is damned for it .
can’t you wait for a moment ?
a gentleman ,  nurse ,  that loves to hear himself talk ,  and will speak more in a minute than you think should do for a month .
around nine o'clock ,  madam .
i have news from rome ,  my good lord .
there is a crab - apple here .
snip and snip and cut and slash—it’s got more holes than a sieve !
put
and so it is, truly; and very notably acted.
you’re too stubborn and too strange to your friend that loves you.
endless weeping for your cousin's death ?
poor souls, they perished.
then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
look after my goods and possessions .
if you want to come have dinner with me ,  you can .
yes ,  lepidus .
we really like this news ,  and later when we have more time we'll read this request ,  answer ,  and think upon this business .
oh ,  be quiet .
tell me ,  good grandmother ,  is our father dead ?
you’ll  “ never trust his word again .  ”  come on ,  that was a stupid thing to say .
they’re like stomachs and we’re just the food .
let’s go !
perhaps even there, where i did find my doubts.
oh ,  horror ,  horror ,  horror !
it was just that the showiness of his grief sent me into a fury .
take my sword .
there ,  take it all back—plates ,  cups ,  the whole thing .
what should i do ?
good words are better than bad strokes ,  octavius .
here’s to you !
picture the mayor and all his brother citizens dressed in their best as they go forth like senators of ancient rome to welcome home their conquering caesar .
heaven help her ! —get him out of here for now .
the rain ,  the wind ,  the thunder and lightning are not my daughters .
drive it out of you .
say either good or bad ,  and i'll wait for the details .
would you rather that caesar were living and we would all go to our graves as slaves ,  or that caesar were dead and we all lived as free men ?
i tried to play games with god ,  and he turned my fake prayer on my head ,  giving me for real what i’d asked for as a joke .
goodbye .
so there’s a rift between othello and cassio ?
by his whimsical bat and his staff and his sandal shoes .
i’m not going to bed tonight .
if he’s caught ,  he’ll never make trouble for anyone again .
my royal lord, you don’t give the toast.
you’re acting stupid ,  casca ,  and you lack the quick wits that a roman should have—or else you don’t use them .
let hercules himself do what he may, the cat will mew and every dog will have his day.
romeo shall thank you, daughter, for us both.
stay, though you kill me, sweet demetrius.
no ,  a flatterer wouldn’t ,  even if the faults were as huge as mount olympus .
so that you shall surely find him, lead these searchers to the sagittary inn, and i will be there with him.
yes ,  desdemona .
oh cousin ,  cousin ,  cousin ,  my sweet little cousin ,  i wish you knew how deep in love i am .
you are unkind, demetrius; don’t be like that, because you love hermia.
beware of getting into a quarrel ,  but ,  once you are in ,  fight so that the man you fight with may beware of you .
my first lie ever was these things i said about myself .
is that a good idea ,  do you think ?
antonio, i am married to a wife who is as dear to me as life itself; but life itself, my wife, and all the world, are not worth more to me than your life; i would lose everything, yes, sacrifice them all here to this devil, to save you.
believe it .
i’ll die like a swan .
has he come home yet ?
so ,  perhaps ,  did yours .
the baron of cawdor lives ,  a prosperous gentleman; and for me to be king is beyond belief ,  no more than to be baron of cawdor .
murder !
master ,  master !
stand aside .
look what i have .
i know that some danger approaches you nearby .
it is almost morning, and i am still sure you are not totally satisfied about these events full.
oh ,  just see what happens after the pageantry is over !
inside the bond of marriage, tell me, brutus, is my knowing secrets that appertain to you an exception to our vows?
i have no wife .
antonius,— caesar?
of course the prince wants hero for himself .
the, shouldn’t i smother in the vault, where there is no fresh air, and i will die there, strangled, before my romeo comes?
as if that name of romeo ,  shot from the deadly level of a gun ,  murdered her the same way as that name's cursed hand murdered her kinsman .
pull out your sword when i do: and when i raise my hand, you do the same, so that it falls on gonzalo.
i’ll rest now .
but tell me—which of my good qualities first made you suffer love for me ?
is that the way it is ,  countrymen ?
speak; tell me .
oh ,  my dear mistress ,  i won’t be able to finish this work until sunset at the earliest .
oh ,  cleopatra !
o ,  what a great thing learning is !
some are born great— ”
do not ask to know any more.
will you listen to me ,  roderigo ?
father and mother is man and wife, man and wife is one flesh, and so, my mother.
you’re my true and honorable wife ,  as dear to me as the blood that runs through my sad heart .
this is casca .
have we turned to turks, and do to ourselves what heaven has forbidden the ottoman?
a rebel !
i know the man a bit .
listen!
i’ve had news that my nell died of the pox in a hospice .
i don’t know ,  and he won’t tell me .
what do you mean by that ?
that was excellent ,  really excellent .
it’s torture ,  and not mercy .
watch with what violence she first loved the moor, but with his bragging, and telling her fantastic lies.
no, noble mistress; it is fresh morning with me when you are near at night.
i’m lorenzo ,  your love .
stay you ,  good gentlemen .
let’s be sacrificers, but not butchers, caius.
sir, i have done all this service since i left you.
you’re still here ?
this love feel i makes me feel no love in this.
it’s almost fairy time .
well ,  your imprisonment won’t last long .
then a third of the world is drunk .
i will bite you on the ear for that joke!
but why should my reputation for honor last longer than my honor did ?
whenever you like .
by next week ,  i’ll be able to pay you .
but we won’t shift the scene to southampton until henry reappears .
but, my good lord, why should you do this?
i’ll only admit that you’re sane when you agree with pythagoras and hesitate to kill a bird because it might contain your grandmother’s soul .
regards to theseus ,  our renowned duke !
i still fear him ,  because in the acquired love he bears to caesar— alas ,  good cassius ,  don’t think of him .
but who’s here?—lysander!
and it’s too bad ,  brutus ,  that you don’t have any mirrors that could display your hidden excellence to yourself .
it is safer to be what we destroy, rather than, by destruction, live in uncertain joy.
i think there should now be a huge eclipse of sun and moon, and that the frightened globe should yawn at changes.
wife !
stop !
swear on my sword.
so i’ll be forced to call you a jerk ,  sir andrew .
tubal, a wealthy hebrew of my tribe, will supply me.
contagious infection of humanity ,  give me a chance to condemn you for the evils i know you’ve committed .
young son ,  it is arguably a distempered head that bids good morning so soon to your bed .
hurry . —oh ,  love ,  if you could only watch the battle today and see how expert i am at my craft .
i meant they had to give her credit .
i wish you well .
of launcelot ,  if it pleases you ,  sir .
from their saddles into the dirt—but that’s another story .
i am never happy when i hear sweet music .
i thank you for your pains and courtesy.
young man ,  something’s wrong if you’re getting out of bed this early .
well ,  the poor man died by your first order ,  which was carried by a winged messenger .
what could you possibly ask of me that i wouldn’t give you ,  as long as it didn’t damage my honor and self - respect ?
my lord ,  it’s news i wish i didn’t have to report .
welcome ,  gentle day !
i don’t know what i shall think of that; but i am launcelot ,  the jew's man ,  and i am sure margery your wife is my mother .
but come on ,  inconsistent young man ,  come with me .
but come ,  lords ,  will you come with me to edward’s room to comfort him ?
we are now afloat on such a high tide, and we must take the opportunity when it presents itself, or lose our one lucky chance.
i mean, sir, in delaying our entrance, we waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
we have met with foes that fight beside us.
what have you found out ?
will you say grace ,  sweet kate ,  or shall i ? —what is this ?
i haven’t seen anything.
the worst thing imaginable has happened .
let’s not leave him out .
our plan will seem too bloody, caius cassius, to cut off the head, and then hack off the arms and legs, like anger in death and jealousy afterwards, because antony is but a limb of caesar.
who's there?
can we finish our lunch ?
it’s strongest in the strongest people .
your houses!
the ground feels flat to me .
first ,  you have to speak to the watchmen who accused them .
yeah ,  and he’s going to tame her .
since you give me so much trouble ,  let me remind you what you have promised ,  which is not yet done for me .
i know that ,  sir .
here, my good lord.
evil can come from good ,  just as poisonous snakes tend to come out into the open on bright sunny days—which means we have to walk carefully .
yes ,  you’re right .
i made my father angry ,  so i went to friar lawrence’s cell to confess and be forgiven .
you are as well provided in both respects as any prince in the world .
why is he dead?
maybe it’s a parade to welcome us to town ,  master .
i have ,  my lord .
monster ,  your fairy ,  which you say is a harmless fairy ,  has done little better than played us for fools .
it is gone!
how are you ,  sir ?
where’s the master ?
scale of dragon, tooth of wolf, witch's mummy, a gulf-like stomach, of the rough sea salt glisten, root of poison hemlock dug up in the dark, liver of christians not baptized, gall bladder of goat, and slips of pine trees cut off the tree when the moon eclipsed, nose of turk, and tartar's lips, finger of a baby born dead delivered in a ditch by a prostitute, make the gruel thick and gooey.
where have you been ,  boy ?
if you will patiently join our dances, and see our moonlight parties, go with us; if not, leave me alone, and i won’t comment on where you’re going.
if it takes on my noble father's appearance, i’ll speak to it, though hell itself should open wide and order me to be silent.
he shall not live; look, i condemn him with a check.
hover about her and tell her she got what she deserved ,  with her children dead before their time .
no corin ,  since you’re old ,  you cannot guess—even if you were as dedicated a lover in your youth as there ever was ,  sighing and mooning all night long .
it faded on the crowing of the rooster.
if they could purge their guilt simply by saying that they were innocent ,  they’d all be as innocent as god himself .
you’ll make me angry .
if every time you wished for a child you could have had one ,  you would have a million children .
will you, i beg you, demand that demi-devil to tell why he has trapped my soul and body like this?
this is antonio ,  my dearest friend .
look, where he goes, even now out the door!
no ,  she’s worse: she’s the devil’s mother ,  and she comes to us disguised as an easy wench .
let it be so.
are you making all this noise at this time of night because you have no manners ,  or because you’re just stupid ?
how are you ?
yes ,  but ,  lady ,  that policy may either last so long ,  or feed on such nice and light diet ,  or take itself so out of circumstance ,  that ,  with my absence and my place filled ,  my general will forget my love and service .
i’ll either fight you ,  macbeth ,  or else i’ll put down my sword unused .
tybalt is dead ,  and romeo has been banished .
my heart is thirsty for that noble promise .
god bless you .
maria ,  our lady wants you .
come ,  let’s go .
an upright judge ,  a learned judge !
i’m glad to see you in such a merry mood .
i’m just sorry i had to be the one to kill him .
who here is so barbarous that he doesn’t want to be a roman ?
almost read people’s thoughts .
caesar, you cannot die by traitors' hands, unless you bring them with you.
but ,  my good lord ,  the words of you and lord buckingham are as trustworthy to me as if i had seen and heard him speak myself .
i know you’ll say  “ yes ,  ”  and i’ll believe you .
i'll go get him now.
i think their traveling to perform a play is a new innovation.
we charge you ,  in the prince’s name ,  to stop !
worthy gentleman !
but i would rather abstain from everything for four days than drink so much in one .
then heaven have mercy on me !
you take that .
dismiss me?
i’ll tell him of fair hermia's flight; then tomorrow night, he will pursue her to the forest, and, even if he just thanks me for this knowledge, it is sweet payment.
oh my christian ducats !
when they choose ,  they have the wisdom to lose by their senses .
o mistake ,  soon conceived ,  you never come to a happy birth ,  only kill the mother that had you !
keep your voice down .
all things that exist are sought for with more spirit than the spirit to enjoy them .
live ,  and from now on ,  say a madman mercifully told you to run away .
i have night's cloak to hide me from their sight; and ,  if you love me ,  let them find me here .
how can watch them ?
that’s true: who gets up from a feast with the same hunger that he had when he sat down?
ah sir!
sweet doctor ,  you shall be my lover: when i am absent ,  then you can lie with my wife .
better macbeth than such an one like me to reign over scotland .
oh ,  juliet ,  i already know about your sad situation .
when was there ever before so great a loss on one side and so little on the other ,  in the ordinary and equal clash of battle ?
he’s somewhere between boy and man .
leave you !
only be sorry that you shall lose your friend, and he is not sorry that he pays your debt; because if the jew only cuts deep enough, i'll pay it instantly with all my heart.
let’s go after the man whose has gone before us to bid us welcome .
tell them so, publius.
didn’t you clearly say  “ knock ,  ”   “ pound ,  ”  and  “ put your fists to work ”  ?
in such a night medea gathered the enchanted herbs that renewed old aeson.
out ,  prostitute !
really ,  my lord ,  i would not .
please tell me .
you know what they say .
but how is it that this memory lives in your mind?
this will only lead to another argument if i stay longer.
enter the castle ,  sir .
alas ,  poor wretch !
decius brutus doesn’t love you .
if you care about your life ,  shake off slumber ,  and beware .
who’s the spokesman for edmund ,  earl of gloucester ?
oh ,  the poor man !
he’s praying now .
is everybody here?
give me your hand, mr. mustardseed.
i’m putting myself in god’s hands ,  and with his help i plan to fight against the secret plot that caused this treasonous murder .
she drinks wine just like everyone else.
it’s been my bad luck to remain alive long enough to be able to tell the sad stories of my own misfortunes .
it’s partly my own fault ,  since i followed you here .
follow me ,  madam . —throw the blind traitor outside .
pharmacist !
i'll put it on.
by god ,  it does look like a camel .
this speech is going on too long .
if you like ,  you can rest a while in my room .
your reason ?
go look and then do the talking yourselves .
stop whining ,  devil .
i wish you all the comfort that such a dark night as this can offer ,  noble father - in - law .
look what i have here .
we’re trying to be reasonable while you’re so upset ,  and we understand that you’re old ,  and… but goneril knows what she’s doing .
kind gentlemen ,  i won’t forget the trouble you’ve taken for me whenever i think of this day .
that's two of his weapons.
welcome, gentlemen!
i hear some noise .
but i’m wishing for something i already have .
grief of my son's exile has killed her.
my tears shall be spent, when theirs are dry, for romeo's banishment.
couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.
affection !
but we already swore ,  sir .
he looks angry .
god ,  i’m really sick .
are you mad ?
we have to strike while the iron’s hot .
unfaithful ?
i'll find romeo to comfort you .
well, my good lord.
no ,  there it is again .
what ,  my lord !
please wait until i finish.
well ,  but what time is it ?
you made me study that one; she was from carthage, not of tunis.
why, it is not possible.
yes ,  believe me ,  and all his lords ,  the duke of milan ,  and his brave son being two of those lost .
a kinder gentleman does not walk on the earth .
speak ,  if you can .
i ,  wall ,  have done my part .
bassanio told him he’d try to hurry back .
what do you say ?
he’s a fool and a spendthrift .
or should we enter without apologizing ?
i would not kill your soul .
i am required by oath to observe three things: first, never to tell anyone which chest i chose; next, if i fail to choose the right chest, i will never court a maid to marry for my whole life; lastly, if i do fail in choosing the right chest, i will leave you immediately and be gone.
what other ceremony?
are you unwell ?
and just try to remember a few rules of life .
yes ,  on land you do outnumber me .
then you'll buy them to sell again.
good night ,  sweet prince ,  and flights of angels sing you to your rest !
the doors are broken.
a greater gift ?
she seemed to be trying to control her emotions ,  which were overwhelming her .
who’s in there ?
his pleasure should be proclaimed this much .
what was the second noise for?
i will beat you severely with an iron wit ,  and put away my iron dagger .
call the messenger in .
well then ,  i know who you are .
i beg you, leave me alone.
is that true ,  my lords of england ?
i prophesied that ,  if a gallows were on land ,  this fellow could not drown .
a simple country farmer who brought her figs .
but everything that lives is mortal ,  including the foolishness of love .
i just know i’m not one .
are you still so cruel ?
come on.
do these eyes move ?
let’s follow him .
and yet i do love you .
he lay there ,  stretched out like a wounded knight .
tomorrow night make sure that you are alone .
you thought so ,  and took his side when we decided who should die ,  in our black punishment and condemning to death .
no ,  but the barber’s assistant has been seen with him .
let’s play billiards .
and even though you know i’m very close to the prince and claudio ,  i swear i’ll keep your counsel and deal with this secretly and justly .
then i’ll listen to her .
my royal kinsman ,  are you teaching our princess english ?
then she has no choice but to hate you ,  as you purchased her love with murder .
why ,  are we turning to men ?
i beg you all ,  if you have kept this sight secret so far ,  keep your silence still ,  and whatever else shall happen tonight ,  take it in ,  but don’t talk about it .
please don’t scold me.
go then ,  slave .
o inhuman dog!
follow him, friends.
my lord ,  we must be alone now .
as for your husband ,  he is noble ,  wise ,  and judicious ,  and he understands what the times require .
saint davy’s day has passed .
is my father well?
but please tell me ,  can you read anything you see ?
i’m not cinna the conspirator .
he brushes his hat in the mornings .
i am his brother ,  and i love him very much .
i have salty and sorry tears that bother me; lend me your handkerchief .
we know each other’s faces ,  but as for our thoughts ,  he doesn’t know any more about my thinking than i do about yours or his—or you do about mine .
you shall be lord of it, and i'll serve you.
i’m sorry about what happened ,  but i’m sure everything will turn out all right .
spirit ,  we must prepare to meet with caliban .
since i can’t amuse myself by being a lover ,  i’ve decided to become a villain .
i’m not interested in anything a eunuch can do .
let me play the lion too .
and let the wise man run away .
i will .
come down ,  look no more .
i have forgotten why i called you back .
greet him, elves, and do him courtesies.
there are tears for his love; joy for his fortune; honor for his valor ,  and death for his ambition .
who pays their way ?
all those memories pain his mind so deeply that guilt and shame keep him away from cordelia .
let’s go !
alas ,  grim death ,  how vile and ugly your near - twin ,  sleep ,  is !
imagination !
can he spit out trinculos?
i beg you ,  emilia ,  go find out about cassio ,  where he had dinner tonight .
let him go ,  gertrude .
but how ?
how can it be ?
fortinbras swore never to threaten denmark again .
o ,  beware ,  my lord ,  of jealousy; lord ,  what fools these mortals be !
i make fun of you !
what have we here?
it’ll go away .
am i a coward ?
where did you leave him?
those who can discipline themselves to undertake such a heavenly path for piety are blessed three times; but those who are in a convent to avoid marriage grow, live, and die, in single blessedness.
the sight is sad, and our affairs come too late from england.
well then ,  add some interjections that indicate laughter ,  like  hold on ,  friar .
even if he only winks, i know what i have to do.
am i part of you but, as it were, in sort or limitation,— to keep you company at meals, sleep in your bed, and talk to you sometimes?
as king of this country i like to reward wit when i hear it .
then sing it .
she’ll be buried with her face upwards ,  then .
where are you going ?
and yet i think you look with your eyes just like every other woman does .
my niece ,  you are welcome here as if you were my own daughter .
a messenger from the galleys.
you want proof ?
now ,  baptista ,  let’s turn to your younger daughter .
what do you mean by all this ?
our plan will seem too bloody ,  caius cassius ,  to cut off the head ,  and then hack off the arms and legs ,  like anger in death and jealousy afterwards ,  because antony is but a limb of caesar .
so please your grace ,  the prologue is next .
what are you ?
it was the lark ,  the messenger that says it’s morning ,  no nightingale .
it’s  “ never get tired .  ”  oh !
it’s a sweet lozenge that you choke on .
your fate awaits you .
i don’t find myself wanting to sleep .
what do you mean ,  beside yourself ?
who's there?
isn’t he a very unholy and rude counselor?
what an ass i am .
hello, good cassio!
this hasn’t reached the level of an egyptian feast yet .
well ,  i’ve begun my reign with a carefully thought - out plan ,  and i have every hope of succeeding .
master young gentleman ,  please ,  which is the way to master jew's ?
if i desecrate with my most unworthy hand this holy shrine of your hand ,  the gentle end is this ,  my lips ,  like two blushing pilgrims ,  ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss .
where's potpan ,  that he doesn’t help with cleaning up ?
let me suffer your anger if it isn’t so .
here ,  or at the capitol .
i haven’t seen anything .
are you trying to wash him out of his grave with tears ?
my dear?
fear it, ophelia, fear it, my dear sister, and keep your affections deep within you, out of the range and danger of desire.
anyway ,  what should we do ?
why ,  dear me ,  kate !
are you such believers in the gospel that you would pray for this good man and for his children, the same man whose heavy hand has led you to death, and made your families beggars?
if your majesty would like ,  i’ll muster up my friends and meet you wherever and whenever you like .
and this is metellus cimber .
and i am another one, so weary with disasters, so unlucky, that i gamble my life on any chance i can get, either to make it better or end it.
i must be one of these silent so - called wise men gratiano’s talking about ,  because he never lets me get a word in .
hate me !
or shall we just go on without any apology?
what’s up ,  daughter and niece ?
go, get going.
sir ,  i cannot .
nature is short in love ,  and where it is short ,  it sends some precious moment of itself close to the thing it loves .
but if you’d be willing to shoot another arrow the same way you shot the first ,  i’ll watch your arrow more carefully this time .
cassio doesn’t know you .
fare - you - well !
hail ,  mortal !
that makes me love you even more .
i can’t watch any more .
strike!
come ,  night .
and did you see the handkerchief ?
stop it, marcellus!
what's the news with you ?
stop ,  sir toby !
but mark , —poor knight ,  what dreadful sorrow is here !
you’ll see that you’re both wrong .
ratcliffe ,  around midnight come to my tent and help me put on my armor .
not young enough to fall in love with a woman because she sings well ,  but not old enough to dote on a woman for any reason .
o mistress ,  villainy has made fun with love !
let’s go ,  we’re leaving; our party - crashing is done .
now you’re sociable .
excellent !
i’ll bet any man who knows the law five shillings to one on it .
our queen and all her elves are coming here any minute!
if any legs here are trinculo’s ,  these are .
trebonius knows his cue .
you shall not write my praise.
good morning, friends.
i’m off .
who the hell are you ?
a good plan ,  warrior king .
i am ready now.
these sweet thoughts relieve me and refresh me ,  especially when i’m slaving away busily .
stay here .
that fortunes, degrees, and offices were not earned by corruption, and that clear honors were purchased by the merit of the wearer!
i’ll speak to them ,  and then tonight i’ll get them all so drunk that the wine seeps out of their old war wounds .
will our army cut a swath through the fighting force of france ,  achieving and accomplishing everything i’ve assembled them to do ?
and they have conspired together; i’ll not say you shall see a party, but if you do, then it was not for nothing that my nose started bleeding on last black monday at six o'clock in the morning, falling out that year on ash-wednesday was four years in the afternoon.
i’ve come to say farewell to my king and master .
well, shylock, shall we be indebted to you?
here’s my hand .
it is monstrous.
what, you’re dressed!
it’s nasty ,  unless they may be skillfully ordered ,  and i think it’s better not to be undertaken .
sing us a song .
listen ,  romeo ,  listen !
miranda . —oh father ,  i’ve disobeyed you by telling him that !
come, sir, to finish up with you.
go ahead .  .
caesar should be a beast without a heart ,  if he stays at home today because he’s afraid .
you’ve wronged caius ligarius .
what ,  did they never whisper ?
say that i hope he never has cause to look for a new master .
because you gave me something for nothing .
i will bite you on the ear for that joke !
thanks for being on time .
tomorrow ,  while it’s still early ,  i will go see the witches .
there is so much money if you’ll kill me now; kill brutus ,  and be honored in his death .
here is a friar, and dead romeo's man, with instruments on him that are fit to open these dead men's tombs.
who do you want to work for ?
you have made a major mistake, and laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight.
where are my swiss guards?
they were nearly killing each other ,  as you saw when you pulled them apart .
be violent ,  bold ,  and firm .
let’s go .
no, i'll conjure him up too.
a customer!
when will he be here ?
would you rather caesar were living ,  and you all die slaves ,  than that caesar were dead ,  so you all live freemen ?
take cupid’s wings and fly higher than the average man .
i will keep saying the funeral prayers for you ,  and i will come every night to put flowers on your grave and weep .
how sweet the moonlight sleeps on this bank!
you see an donkey-head of your own, do you?
run ,  everyone ,  run !
this man is that banished, arrogant montague that murdered my love's cousin, by which grief, it is supposed, the beautiful creature died, and he’s come here to desecrate the dead bodies.
yes ,  what about him ?
i'll go along ,  not to be shown such a sight ,  but to rejoice in splendor of my own love’s looks .
past noon .
and pick a fight with my own shadow?
he ,  woman; i say your husband .
in such a night medea gathered the enchanted herbs that renewed old aeson .
no, this was only his dream.
thieves !
oh ,  if you are the same egeon ,  speak now ,  and speak to that same emilia !
my language !
please stay seated .
all i’m saying is that strange things have been going on .
i will hide you where you shall have time to speak your heart freely.
well ,  we were all born to die .
how did she get that candle ?
sir ,  i think i saw him last night .
tyranny is dead !
yes ,  and briefly .
destiny chooses when you’ll die and who you’ll marry .
go to him ,  petition him .
gentlemen ,  go in there and grab him .
i know he wouldn’t be a wolf, but he sees that the romans are nothing but sheep.
but don’t take all that pain on yourself .
it was a good and lucky vision .
enough ,  cousin .
i don’t know where he’s staying ,  so if i told you he’s sleeping here or there ,  i’d be lying .
is it in the air or the earth?
you’re talking like some innocent girl who doesn’t understand the ways of the world .
hermia is happy, wherever she lies, because she has blessed and attractive eyes.
to leave his wife ,  to leave his babes ,  his mansion ,  and his titles ,  in a place that he himself flies from ?
she says you’re going to marry her .
why should you think that i should not court you seriously?
for heaven’s sake ,  stop this savage brawl !
welcome ,  gentlemen .
on the way ,  we came across my wife ,  her sister ,  and their gang of vile associates .
though this island seems to be deserted,— ha, ha, ha!
she weeps for edward and so do i ,  while she does not weep for clarence ,  though i do .
but go away now .
come on ,  you can go .
seem ?  ”  ,  madam !
oh my god, they have run away and left me asleep!
for more important things ,  you’ll say no .
a deed without a name .
this is trebonius .
devilish macbeth has sought to win me into his power by many of these thoughts, and modest wisdom keeps me from over-believing haste.
revise your statement ,  or you may damage your inheritance .
in short ,  when i told him how firmly opposed i was to his hideous plan ,  he pulled out his sword and lunged at my defenseless body ,  cutting my arm .
o most wicked, evil woman!
and it’s too bad that the moor chose a man with such a deep - rooted drinking problem as his second - in - command .
this hebrew will become a christian: he’s getting kind .
i will pause for a reply .
your face is mine ,  and you’ve lied about it .
let’s get away ,  tybalt .
now everyone be seated ,  as this is the part where we sit and chat as well as eat .
not a mouse stirring .
what did he say ?
transparent helena!
now the inconstant moon has nothing to do with me .
i reign in my resolution and begin to doubt the lie of the fiend that lies the same as telling the truth .
my lord ,  i’ll hit him now .
what can i give you that you want ,  my lord ,  except the one thing you can’t have ?
yes ,  i know her age down to the hour .
but, come, for england!
tell her to put her mind at rest .
be quiet ,  you are antonio .
good - bye ,  my lord .
damn ,  there is no such man; it is impossible .
i slept well ,  ate well ,  and was happy .
when caesar lived ,  he wouldn’t dare insult me like this .
why i’m going down into this tomb is partly to see my lady's face, but mostly to take a precious ring from her dead finger, a ring that i must use in a very special errand.
just know this before i begin: i can’t play a single note that’s worthy of note .
well ,  time is the old judge that tries your kind of criminal .
o idiot!
do so ,  good messala .
my brother shall know of it.
she will have a seat—you heard my daughter tell you how .
and how do you like lord bassanio’s wife ?
tunis was never graced before with anything equal to their queen.
it is safer to be what we destroy ,  rather than ,  by destruction ,  live in uncertain joy .
let rome fall !
thank you ,  sir .
it rebels at this age?
what false impression did i give you ?
get away from here and leave me .
let me have a small vial of poison ,  such quickly acting medicine that it will disperse itself throughout all the veins in order that the life - weary taker may fall dead ,  and that the body may suffocate as violently as speedy gunpowder hurries a bullet from a gun barrel .
i tell you she is, and therefore make her grave straight.
let’s slash their backs and grab ’em like we do rabbits ,  from behind .
here ,  here ,  sir !
my own house ,  good lady .
i'll free you within two days for this.
he reads a lot; he’s a great observer ,  and actually he looks through the deeds of men .
where's your master?
there's no trust, no faith, no honesty in men; all are liars, all swear falsely, all nothing, all deceivers.
o, but she'll keep her word.
and you, the judges, watch carefully.
come, civil night, you sober-suited matron, all in black, and teach me how to lose a winning match, played for a pair of stainless maidens.
goodbye to the soldiers and to the wars that make men great !
you still haven’t said anything incriminating .
tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way did he run ?
and yet i fear you; because you are deadly when your eyes roll so .
that’s good ,  my boy .
there the men are as crazy as he is .
you ,  will you join with me ?
that’s why your desires are wolfish ,  bloody ,  and ravenous .
show your slaves how mad you are ,  and make your servants tremble .
where have  come here ,  boy .
when they next wake up ,  all this conflict shall seem to be a dream and a worthless vision; and back to athens the lovers shall go with happiness and agreement that will never end .
would you rather caesar were living, and you all die slaves, than that caesar were dead, so you all live freemen?
yes ,  that’s the one .
my noble father ,  i see a divided duty here .
otherwise—forgive me ,  but if you should die before him ,  what becomes of her dowry ?
i rather think you haven’t sought her help, by whose soft grace, i have received her royal aid for a similar loss, and i am at peace.
at least it’s possible in denmark .
what foolish thief brags about his crimes ?
what do you say to me now?
you’re naughty .
my lord of warwick and my brother gloucester ,  follow fluellen at a close distance .
it doesn’t matter .
i’ve finished it for you ,  and it ends in  “ margaret .  ”  he’s turned your curse against you ,  margaret .
next thing you know ,  he’ll be saying  “ widower aeneas .  ”   “ widow dido ,  ”  did you say ?
this treacherous egyptian has betrayed me .
they swore that you were nearly dead with love for me .
i am satisfied ,  as long as the maiden cities you talk of come with her .
the evil deed has turned itself on me.
you !
who is the man who can explain this to me?
love’s not love when it gets mixed up with irrelevant outside matters .
if you’re smart ,  you’ll go home .
show !
no ,  come ,  let's go together .
part them .
it is rather cold ,  indeed ,  my lord .
you will be whipped .
what have you done ?
in torture ,  bassanio !
the lady protests too much, i think.
then this was an island—except for the son that she had here ,  a freckled pup ,  born of a witch—not resembling any human shape .
go ,  and hurry back to bring us her reply and news of her state of mind .
but people often screw things up trying to make them better .
all the worse that she stooped this low ,  then .
zounds, i bleed still; i am hurt to the death.
don’t you have any brothers like you ?
a hare ,  a hare ,  a hare !
he is already named king; and gone to scone to be invested.
who talks of my nation ?
the time is of such a boring duration.
we’re available .
no more ,  no more .
we are resolved ,  my lord .
jove protect you well for this !
is he sane ?
will you help me ?
i did it myself .
what’s your name ?
i’m sure it would’ve ,  i’m sure it would’ve .
which way is it ?
is there a scale here to weigh the flesh ?
have you written the lion's part ?
bassanio ,  lord love ,  if it is your will !
pick up the corpses .
is that why you’re talking so wildly ?
it is silliness to live when to live is torment; and then we have a prescription to die when death is our physician.
father ,  wife ,  friends—farewell !
what’s the news ?
you that choose not by looks, gamble as fair and choose as true!
lieutenant ,  -  - sir ,  -  - montano ,  -  - gentlemen ,  -  -  have you forgot all place of sense and duty ?
good sir ,  calm down .
this is unbelievable !
but such officers do the king best service in the end.
i’ll secure the doors ,  and cover myself with some more dollars ,  and i’ll be with you right away .
the inherited estate !
actually ,  it’s my arm .
what have you found ?
trebonius !
i see this has dashed your spirits a little.
o rude unthankfulness !
yet brutus says he was ambitious; and brutus is an honorable man.
remember what i’ve told you .
you yourself shall see the law; because, as you insist on justice, be assured you shall have justice, more than you desire.
first ,  he said you had no right to him .
heaven knows .
what for ,  my lord ?
his pleasure should be proclaimed this much.
drown yourself ?
what should such fellows as i do crawling between earth and heaven ?
he was only a fool that brought my answer back .
not since widow dido's time .
so be it ,  dolabella .
come ,  he has hidden himself among these trees ,  to have a sexual liaison with the moody night .
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you just gave me ?
how’s the prince ?
we will wait on you ,  your majesty .
i do consent , — mark him down ,  antony .
you know what you know .
oh ,  lord ,  this makes me laugh !
o worthy stephano!
what do you want to tell me ?
are you alive ?
look at your house ,  your daughter ,  and your bags !
and yet i still regret the anger that drove me to kill them .
write to me very soon and i’ll let you know what she thinks .
you did .
many men use that excuse to avoid giving gifts .
if it please his majesty, it is the relaxing time of day with me.
yes ,  sir ,  he’s here at the door right now and asks to see you .
nor i .  i would not live there ,  to put my father into violent thoughts ,  by being always in his sight .
here's fine turnaround ,  if we were able to see it .
i could really use his advice right now .
i’m telling you this story for a reason .
by mary, well thought.
helena, it’s not true.
come, sit down on this flowery bed, while i play with your amiable cheeks, and stick musk-roses in your sleek smooth head, and kiss your fair large ears, my gentle joy.
oh ,  come on now ,  kate .
you got me ,  i admit it .
that whore ?
romeo killed tybalt .
bring the villain out .
if brutus will guarantee that antony may safely come to him and is ready to tell how caesar deserved to die, mark antony shall love brutus living better than caesar dead, and will follow the fortunes and affairs of noble brutus with all true faith thorough the hazards of this unconquered state.
wow ,  she is one of this conspiracy !
if it’s sad to see a handsome man with a cheating wife ,  it’s a tragedy to see an ugly thug with a wife who’s faithful .
think so ,  iago ?
let me lick your shoe.
i think few die well who die in battle .
yes, yes, three thousand dollars.
what’s this ?
from now until then seems like twenty years .
and our drunkenness does detract from our achievements ,  as great as they are ,  and lessens our reputations .
what visions have i seen !
stay ,  fellow; i can read .
it’s true ,  my brother's daughter is queen of tunis; she also inherits naples; there is some distance between the two countries .
you know i gave it to you just now .
neither of them would take anything but the two rings .
i am ,  unless i somehow stole this role .
give me your hand .
get me some poison tonight ,  iago .
what friend ?
honestly ,  sir ,  we say that we are not criminals .
my invocation is fair and honest, and, in his mistress' name, i only conjure him to raise up him.
go softly on.
good morning ,  kate ,  for i hear that’s what you’re called .
we are ,  my lord .
happy that we’re not too happy ,  lucky in being not too lucky .
my father’s studying hard ,  so he won’t see you .
you’re mistaken about all that .
what is the matter ,  gentlemen ?
i have nothing to do with what you’re talking about ,  my lord .
it’s just my bad luck .
i beg you, remember the porter.
it’d be impossible for you to watch them ,  even if they were as horny as animals in heat and as stupid as drunks .
o, be some other name!
what an awful day !
my good lord !
what's the news from venice?
i took their stings too ,  wouldn’t you say ?
i think i see these things with unfocused eyes, as when every thing seems double.
then the dovehouse shook with the earthquake .
he discovered that the man was his older brother .
i hope god makes you happy again ,  like you once were .
my soul will keep yours company on the way to heaven .
i assure you ,  sir ,  it’s true .
then i’ll be quick .
what's this ?
nurse ,  give my regards to to your lady .
it’s amazing ,  if i may say so ,  that she let herself be tamed .
the only kind of tears you should shed in this case are the kind you might get from holding an onion to your nose .
let spoiled children, light of heart, tickle the senseless weeds with their running and dancing; for i am composing proverbs with a grandfather’s words, i'll be a candle-holder and look on, the game was never any fun and i am done.
doesn’t she think i’m an old murderer, now i have stained the beginning of our joy with blood from a close relative?
dearest ,  kindest ,  most honorable sir ,  may i say ,  with your esteemed approval ,  which is lit up by the illuminating radiance of the sun - god phoebus ,  that— what do you mean by that ?
o devil ,  devil !
if anything of sorrow or wonder ,  stop your search .
but what about cicero?
is it sport?
so be it!
there’s plenty of time .
please ,  if it is ,  give it to me now ,  because i am slow in studying my lines .
here, here!
give me your hand ,  messala .
we’ll burn his body in the holy place and use the brands to set the traitors' houses on fire .
nothing but death shall stop me.
because ,  coming from there ,  my son is lost; and ,  in my opinion ,  she is too ,  who is so far away from italy ,  that i shall never see her again .
thieves !
wicked woman ,  these white hairs you’re pulling off my chin will come to life and accuse you of wrong - doing .
don’t deny to him that you love me .
this man is probably like that .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
i’ll do my best to obey you ,  madam .
oh ,  how i love you !
we took this chisel - edged pick and this shovel from him as he was coming from this side of the churchyard .
call yourself your own sister ,  because i want you .
how old are you ,  friend ?
what do i see here ?
i don’t have it with me .
yes, and truly; you had better answer.
is it possible ?
amazingly sleepy !
oh god of battles ,  bolster my soldiers' courage .
think of this ,  good peers ,  only as a common occurrence .
what’s the matter, my love!
aren’t the mayor and his fellow citizens coming ?
hang her!
do you need something ?
i don’t know from what part of the world i should be contacted, if not by lord hamlet.
hero is his only child ,  and his only heir .
let it alone, you fool; it is only trash.
lies about me in the throat as deep as the lungs ?
take me off to jail ?
the only reason they don’t get punished and cured is that the disease is so commonplace that the nuthouse nurses are usually suffering from it ,  too .
you’ll force me ,  then ,  to read the will ?
give me your blessing .
it is not expressly stated; but so what?
aside.
buck up ,  boy !
who would choose to grunt and sweat through an exhausting life ,  unless they were afraid of something dreadful after death ,  the undiscovered country from which no visitor returns ,  which we wonder about without getting any answers from and which makes us stick to the evils we know rather than rush off to seek the ones we don’t ?
cassio, i love you; but never more be an officer of mine.
there is much to be learned from these converts .
what are you doing here ?
though he seems a little old - fashioned ,  there is much care and courage in this welshman .
you’ve seen these illusions .
that’s not good .
what’s wrong with you ?
listen, dardanius.
you have offered me the lands of sicily and sardinia .
in the country ,  i would carry out all things by opposites; because i wouldn’t admit any kind of traffic; have no one named magistrate; appeals before a court wouldn’t be recognized; riches ,  poverty ,  and slavery ,  none; treaties ,  lines of succession ,  boundaries ,  boundary lines of land ,  farming ,  vineyards ,  none; no use of metal ,  corn ,  or wine ,  or oil; no occupations; all men idle ,  all: and women too ,  only innocent and pure; no supreme ruler , — but he would be king on it .
don’t find any, conspiracy; hide it in smiles and friendliness, because, if you pass, your real face on, not even the dark place between heaven and hell itself is dim enough to hide you from being stopped.
i tell you ,  this house is as dark as ignorance .
you naughty ,  deceitful man ,  what’s your trade ?
therefore ,  tell me ,  what is he doing at sea ?
but please ,  can you read anything you see ?
good hay, sweet hay, has no equal.
he will come right away .
and what of all this ?
i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
i beg you, take them back now.
stop the burial a while, until i hold her once more in mine arms.
romeo !
my queen and eros have by their brave examples beaten me to the history books .
sin from my lips ?
he would have ?
therefore ,  you should obey their wishes .
how did you get this letter ?
come ,  husband ,  let’s go to lunch .
i can’t say no .
oh ,  immortal gods !
i wish he’d go away !
as long as they didn’t do anything ,  it would only be a minor sin .
there is no vice so simple that it takes on some mark of virtue on outside.
there's two or three of us who have seen strange sights .
hey out there !
pompey is making the most of our absence .
of what
so guildenstern and rosencrantz go to it.
you’ll never find her without an answer unless you find her without a tongue .
and he and i will watch you wake up, and that very night romeo take you there, to mantua.
let me come clean .
oh ,  i wish we could unmask scoundrels like that ,  and give a whip to every good man to beat them senseless with !
are you that impatient ?
but you’ve seen her and cassio together .
i’m sure the duke will never allow this contract to be enforced .
come on ,  sir ,  will you come aboard ?
sir ,  he ate with this woman at the porcupine .
i hope to god i’m proven wrong !
stand directly in antony’s way ,  when he runs his course . —antony , — caesar ,  my lord ?
please don’t ,  sir .
what ,  have you forgotten me ?
darn it ,  if i’d guessed he was so brave and such a good swordsman ,  i never would have challenged him .
won’t the dawn come from here ?
i’ll tell you privately .
i’ll put another question to you.
that’s what’s clever about it .
i heard you do a speech once ,  but it was never acted ,  or if it was ,  not more than once ,  for the play ,  i remember ,  didn’t please the crowd ,  it was caviar to the particular ,  but it was ,  as i took it ,  and others ,  whose judgments in such matters far exceed mine ,  an excellent play ,  well organized in the scenes ,  set down with as much modesty as skill .
wow ,  we’re really going to drive him crazy .
why ,  she’s inside .
isn’t that what they said ?
come over here .
and now my lady worm's ,  no jaw and knocked about the face with a sexton's spade .
don’t take long to speak .
lord hastings ,  you and he are close .
who's in there ?
alas ,  he is betrayed ,  and i have no hope !
now please listen ,  sir .
not at all ,  touchstone .
tell antony that brutus has been taken .
but you began so rudely .
fear comes over me .
groan?!
come on, nerissa, i have work in hand that you don’t know about yet; we'll see our husbands before they think about us.
then he pulled a watch from his bag and ,  looking at it solemnly ,  said ,   “ it’s ten o'clock .
you’re a villain !
have lost ,  and the indignity we have endured ,  for which he is too insignificant to sufficiently pay us back .
so ,  what’s the news on the rialto ?
is your little pearl in there ?
he’s waiting outside .
good morning to you both.
i wish i had your guarantee, because i see that a weak bond holds you; i'll not trust your word.
if you can’t do it ,  be grateful you’ve lived this long and go wait to die in your cabin ,  if it comes to that . —harder ,  men ! —now get out of our way ,  i’m telling you .
it is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will .
nor send you out of the way?
come here, nurse.
emilia, run to the fortress, and tell my lord and lady what has happened.
hurry, gentle jew.
monster ,  i smell like horse piss ,  which is making my nose pretty upset .
talk to him .
let me know how this nasty fight began ,  who started it ,  and he that is guilty of this offense ,  even if he is my twin brother ,  both born at the same time ,  he’ll be finished with me .
what angel wakes me from my flowery bed ?
give us the swords, come on.
that’s right ,  you stupid thing .
i am sorry to hear this .
why stay when love tells you to go ?
really ,  i had no intention of going for my sword .
they’re wise and honorable ,  and will no doubt give you reasons for it .
so go .
i have no idea ,  my lord .
where are you?
madam ,  not yet .
i’m happiest of all that i’m yours now ,  my lord ,  my king ,  and you can guide me as you wish .
so ,  kneel down ,  and beg mercy of the duke .
true and a goose for his secret-keeping.
love can transpose things that are low and ugly ,  having no good qualities at all ,  into things that have beauty and dignity .
why ,  antony .
you ,  nick bottom ,  have been cast as pyramus .
if you’re the lady of the house ,  then it’s true you’re stealing your role ,  because what’s yours to give away is not yours to keep for yourself .
ok ,  enough of that .
i thought your heart had been wounded by a lion’s claws .
i enchanted them so thoroughly that they followed me through thorn bushes and prickly shrubs that tore up their shins .
first kiss me ,  kate ,  and then we will .
i used to think, as our politicians do, a sin to make a forgery and worked hard at how to forget that learning, but, sir, now it did me a useful service.
no way but this, killing myself, to die on a kiss.
what additional sorrow conspires against my old age?
i don’t like that .
actually ,  their hearts are as sensitive and loyal as ours are .
exchange forgiveness with me ,  noble hamlet .
oh ,  charmian ,  i will never leave this tomb !
i'll follow you, and make a heaven of hell, to die by the hand that i love so well.
i’ll return the favor .
don’t forget to come to our feast .
i'll keep my oath, patiently to deal with my anger.
what’s the matter that they scream so loudly in the streets?
what will you give us ?
why are you breathless, and why are you staring like that?
what brings him here ?
here comes my lord .
a man no mightier than you or i in ability ,  yet grown as huge and frightening as tonight’s strange happenings .
we’ll have to speak more.
i cannot drink too much of brutus’s love .
life is a story told by an idiot ,  full of noise and emotional disturbance but devoid of meaning .
well, if fortune is a woman, she's a good woman for this guy.
could you feed on this fair mountain ,  and glut yourself on this swamp ?
a fair woman !
what ,  man !
you’re crazy to say that!
really ,  he’s very witty ,  and full of wise sayings .
if they were not reinforced by those troops that should be ours ,  we might have met them boldly ,  beard to beard ,  and beat them backward where they came from .
the things men do daily ,  not knowing what they’re doing !
i know his walk; it is he .
are you sick ?
i guarantee you ,  my man is as true as steel .
admired miranda !
i’ll look for him and secretly help him .
nothing else ,  for god’s sake !
please ,  my lord ,  don’t be friendly with her .
i wonder what it means .
your voice shall be as strong as any man's in giving out the new honorable offices .
more or less .
o rome ,  i promise you ,  if revenge follows ,  you will receive everything you ask for at the hand of brutus !
but if the gods themselves saw her then, when she saw pyrrhus make malicious sport by chopping her husband’s limbs with his sword, the instant burst of noise that she made, unless mortal events can’t move them at all, would have made the burning eyes of heaven milk, and rouse passion in the gods.
sirs ,  you all wait outside .
but not the woman who scolds ,  anyway ,  i hope .
he mixed that poison himself .
only describing what you have ruined .
no one admires speed more than the lazy .
my friend, your husband, honest, honest iago.
why shouldn’t i pursue hermia?
you think you can get rid of me that easily ?
a hall a hall !
follow my mother .
but i know why a snail carries its house on its back .
well ,  that’s what he’s doing—making you free to enjoy heaven .
that was when i was young and inexperienced and didn’t know what passion was .
o heavens!
hurry ,  hurry !
o, your only dancer!
she lives about twenty miles from athens ,  and she thinks of me as a son .
she can stay at her father’s house .
why did i ever have one ?
i won’t trouble you yet with questions about your situation . —some music ,  please ,  and ,  good friend ,  sing .
all we do is sit and sit and eat and eat .
you will be the king .
true ,  madam; he ,  that ,  of all the men that i have ever seen with my foolish eyes ,  was the most deserving of a beautiful lady .
and has given proper appearance to his speech, my lord, with almost all the holy vows of heaven.
i will either get you out ,  lying if i have to ,  or stay in prison in your place .
what a miserable and obstinate fellow this king of england is ,  to blunder with his fat - headed followers so far beyond his capacity .
what do you want with her ,  sir ?
sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss, since you wouldn’t bless our europe with your daughter, but would rather marry her to an african; where she is, at least, out of your sight, you who has cause to shed tears about it.
don’t go ,  ”  says my conscience .
and now you know my meaning .
please, look in.
a play there is, my lord, some ten words long, which is as brief as i have known a play; but by ten words, my lord, it is too long, which makes it tedious, because, in all the play there is not one appropriate word, one player a good actor.
and so she did .
it will be to your advantage ,  because i’ll leave our father’s house and all his property to you ,  while i live and die a shepherd here in the forest .
cassio, how did you come by that handkerchief that was my wife's?
here i’ll rest until daybreak .
this man looks like his business is urgent .
oh sweet nurse ,  what news do you bring ?
no trouble ,  sir .
please ,  hurry up .
i can put him in the right mood ,  and i’ll bring him to the capitol .
they’re pretty busy in there .
that pale face of yours will frighten the others as well .
i know, iago, your honesty and love minimize this matter, making it easier for cassio.
who is it?
what kind of crude jerk are you ?
a little water will wash away the evidence of our guilt .
help, ho!
goodbye ,  gentlemen .
o ,  did he ?
in this slumbery agitation ,  besides her walking and other actual performances ,  what ,  at any time ,  have you heard her say ?
you’ll hear more from me by midnight .
for lead ?
you lie, you shag-haired villain!
god bless you for being here .
stay ,  take my hand .
why, look here, at what an unworthy a thing you make of me!
damn it, you may partly hope that your father had not fathered you, that you are not the jew's daughter.
what should i say, sweet lady?
where will you lead me?
my soul is full of confusion and sorrow .
where is my mother ?
run and proclaim it in the streets .
why are you whispering ?
how now ,  my lord !
o, then, i see queen mab hath been with you.
well ,  you can go now .
i see your own business needs you, and you take this opportunity to leave.
i’ve only made it this far since i left her place ,  walking at a moderate pace .
who's there ?
why is that cauldron sinking ?
we’ll go visit caliban ,  my slave who always talks to us so nastily .
what sorrow craves to know me at my hand, that i don’t know yet?
tell me why you did it .
cover his mouth ,  bring him silently .
titinius' face is upward.
my heart’s as black as death .
i should sin only to think nobly of my grandmother: good women have had bad sons.
scold me a lot ,  emilia ,  i was ,  unhandsome warrior as i am ,  charging his unkindness with a crime of my soul; but now i find i had falsely testified ,  and he's falsely accused .
have a nice day!
do tell .
if her breath steams up the glass ,  then she’s alive .
is fleance going with you?
so ,  get ready to cut off the flesh .
quiet !
the people have heard it already ,  and they’ve been told of his accusations .
gentlemen, for shame!
the best thing about me is that i’m hardworking .
he look should look that way with so many strange things to say.
sir ?
i cannot only remember such things that were ,  that were most precious to me .
what, man!
yet i wish i could take that promise back ,  so i had it to give again .
jesus ,  what’s your hurry ?
tell me ,  my good friend ,  what is that light over there ?
how does lieutenant cassio?
it bothers me ,  though ,  that these poor spotted innocents ,  who ,  after all ,  are this deserted city’s native citizens ,  should be gouged with arrows .
but if you remember ,  i didn’t tell you to parody the style .
she that i spoke of ,  our great captain's captain ,  left in the company of the bold iago ,  whose footing here occurs earlier than the seven nights we thought it would take .
no, my lord.
away ,  then !
hey ,  are you biting your thumb at us ?
i shall be saved by my husband; he has made me a christian .
ha!
weren’t you sent for ?
what havoc have you wreaked in this part of the forest ?
what form ?
and this.
it’s not possible.
watch titinius and tell me what you see in the field .
as long as an average person might count to a hundred.
speak .
you’re defending an impostor ?
alas ,  alas !
no ,  it’s permanent .
ho !
this treachery of yours is like the second
please ,  please tell me !
then i guess i was misled .
o my lord ,  if my duty is too bold ,  it’s because my love has no manners .
i beg you, don’t let me down.
i have a daughter, have while she is mine, who, in her duty and obedience, listen, has given me this.
i will calculate your love from this time forward.
good reasons must ,  of course ,  yield to better reasons .
but wait a minute ,  please .
no more than that ,  my lord .
my lord ,  what is your will ?
okay ,  i’m ready .
thunder] alas ,  the storm has come again !
get out, tawny barbarian, out!
i had put bitter wormwood on my breast as i was sitting in the sun ,  under the wall of the dovehouse .
send the deed after me and i’ll sign it .
he’s very handsome .
will you have dinner with me tonight ,  casca ?
i am out of patience .
and when you saw his chariot appear ,  haven’t you made one great big shout that was so loud the tiber river trembled underneath her banks to hear the echo of your sounds that bounced off her hollow shores ?
i’m still young enough to see without glasses ,  and i don’t see what you’re talking about .
no ,  i haven’t had lunch .
has he come home yet ?
good thinking .
come and get it !
come, come, come, come, give me your hand.
she’s as dead as the cold ground .
he thanks you on his knees many times and considers himself fortunate to have fallen into the hands of one ,  as he thinks ,  who is the bravest ,  most valorous ,  and thrice - worthy gentleman of england .
he has confessed .
oh ,  where have you led me ,  egypt ?
caesar ,  beware of brutus; be careful of cassius; don’t come near casca; watch cinna; don’t trust trebonius; pay attention to metellus cimber; decius brutus doesn’t love you; you’ve sinned against caius ligarius .
yes ,  on his front .
in the country, i would carry out all things by opposites; because i wouldn’t admit any kind of traffic; have no one named magistrate; appeals before a court wouldn’t be recognized; riches, poverty, and slavery, none; treaties, lines of succession, boundaries, boundary lines of land, farming, vineyards, none; no use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil; no occupations; all men idle, all: and women too, only innocent and pure; no supreme ruler,— but he would be king on it.
get going, and hire those horses.
if it had not fallen dead flat.
why ,  then my shoe is well - flowered .
and ,  see ,  your wife is with him .
tell her that i’ve been arrested and the money will be my bail .
do you recognize the writing ?
are you telling me this to make interest good ?
how green !
in this last storm.
if we let crimes like this happen ,  slaves and heathens will be our rulers .
all right ,  then .
it may be these apparent signs ,  the unaccustomed weather of this night ,  and persuasion of his men who tell the future may keep him from the capitol today .
will you tell me that?
i’d be ashamed to give you this .
what would you say to me now if i really were your precious little rosalind ?
the will of man is persuaded by his reason ,  and reason says you are the worthier maid .
pitiful situation !
give me your hand; do you come from old bellario ?
but you’re wrong .
oh ,  if i’ve got any influence over you at all ,  please patch things up with him .
where are the evil men who started this fight ?
this one talks about how roderigo should kill cassio .
well ,  should we hear some music ?
it fills me with fear and wonder.
why ,  you will quarrel with a man that has a hair more or a hair less in his beard than you have .
nor do we find him easy to figure out the reason why ,  because ,  with a crafty craziness ,  keeps his distance when we try to bring him to some confession of his true state .
where are you going ?
come with me ,  boy .
o, then i see that madmen have no ears.
over hill, over dale, through bush, through brier, over park, over pale, through flood, through fire, i am going everywhere, quicker than the moon goes through the sky; and i serve the fairy queen, to put dewdrops into her eyes upon the green.
poor tom will take you there .
if i have punished you too harshly ,  your payment makes up for it ,  because i have given you here a third of my own life ,  or the part for which i live ,  who ,  once again ,  i give to you .
let’s go in; and ask us all your questions, and we’ll answer everything truthfully.
isn’t this stephano, my drunken butler?
but i beg you ,  don’t interpret my suspicions as slander against you .
would it be better if i were that ,  instead of what i am ?
honestly ,  no .
no matter .
my king ,  they haven’t come back yet .
in short ,  ophelia ,  don’t believe his vows ,  because they are pimps ,  not made of those things which show outside ,  but mere beggars of unholy courtships ,  breathing like holy and righteous procurers ,  the better to deceive you .
i will go right away to my ghostly priest's house, to get his help and to tell him about my dear good fortune.
fled to england ?
the one that doesn’t work has the more delicate sense .
don’t come near until you hear me call .
to answer that question, i should confess to you.
how are you ,  my royal lord ?
the dauphin ,  whom we asked for reinforcements ,  sends back the answer that he’s not yet in a position to raise so great an army .
that’s very good; i must be patient .
no ,  my lord ,  i saw nothing .
this island's mine, through sycorax my mother, which you took from me.
they’re very anxious for you to get there .
give our officers notice of our intentions .
who is she?
i’ll bandy you about and overwhelm you with my cleverness .
it’s on such a high tide that we’re now floating ,  and we must take the current when it is offered ,  or lose our campaign .
either let heaven send lightning to strike the murderer dead or let the earth open wide and devour him ,  as it does this good king’s blood .
were the same age .
but these days ,  people give each other their hands without their hearts .
no .
i know i will too ,  if it’s the last thing i do .
don’t hear it, duncan, for it is a sorrowful omen of death that summons you to heaven or to hell.
tom’s chilly .
i don’t cross you ,  but i will .
hide with a false pleasant face what you know in your false ,  evil heart .
run to the capitol ,  and nothing else ?
i am weary of this moon .
you know that banquo and his son ,  fleance ,  live .
so much for this, sir.
so now turn and draw your sword .
i hope he’s grown a lot since i last saw him .
the whole town will riot !
oh dainty duck !
tell me ,  friend .
richard .
charmian !
that’s the way to do it !
antonius , — caesar ?
well then ,  the beef without the mustard .
who’s that ?
carved it up and down like an apple tart ?
it is true.
a man that all his life has founded his good fortunes on your love ,  shared dangers with you ,  the handkerchief !
so guildenstern and rosencrantz go to it .
i followed it here ,  or i should say it dragged me here .
bring me the handkerchief—my mind is full of doubt .
how am i false?
you will never be able to say the same about me .
that did i ,  my lord ,  and i was accounted a good actor .
who sent you here ?
do you know, servant, where lieutenant cassio lies?
otherwise ,  i’ll do it anytime ,  as long as i’m able .
he wouldn’t get drunk much ,  since there’s no wine here .
this bad weather isn’t good to walk around in .
you’re a poor man if you’re this impatient !
get going, you dwarf; you zero, made of scraps of grass; you bead, you acorn.
now he tells how she brought him to my bedroom .
give me my robe .
i take my leave most humbly ,  my lord .
why ,  anything; an honorable murderer ,  if you will; because nothing i did was in hate ,  but done all in honor .
what handkerchief ?
what do you want ?
and you’re not loyal ,  like us .
cursed ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day !
let me at him .
i am still a virgin; i have never gone back on my word, scarcely have wanted what was my own, at no time broke a promise, would not betray the devil to his fellow, and delight more in truth than life.
let’s see how .
i see you all are bent to set against me for your entertainment.
good sir ,  as a friend ,  i advise you to leave this place .
i’ll run ,  devil .
come on ,  nerissa ,  i want to go see this man who’s come so courteously .
the prince has far outgrown me .
don’t let the heavens hear these chattery women abuse the lord’s anointed king .
i don’t know his name .
what’s the matter, do you think?
whoever is already married (except one person i know) will stay married—all but one person .
you shall hear more by midnight.
you don’t know me .
what ,  do you present your petitions in the street ?
i’m happy to see you ,  my lady and my wife !
yet more quarrelling with purpose !
no one will listen to it .
a dog of the house of montague motivates me .
i hear that you must marry this count on thursday ,  and that nothing can delay it .
let’s go inside and we’ll answer all your questions truthfully .
you have ruined my innocent child .
if you nod, you’ll break your harp; i'll take it from you, and, good boy, good night.
yes ,  my lord .
you thug !
but, if you swear, you may prove false.
boy !
calm down .
go lodge a complaint about this with the duke .
get more candles; wake up all my relatives.
beautiful and noble hostess ,  we are your guests tonight .
there was no end to his generosity .
well ,  onward ,  then .
ah ,  he got you back ,  benedick !
even like that, lucilius.
say he’s sick .
what do you say ?
among them are one hundred twenty - six princes and standard - bearing nobles .
may the tongues of our critics rot !
in love ?
before i started seeing lysander, athens seemed like a paradise to me.
and just for today ,  oh ,  lord ,  just today don’t think of the crime my father committed in seizing the crown !
when caesar says  “ do this ,  ”  it is done .
you didn’t give me any gold .
she speaks my language !
when our actions do not make us traitors ,  our fears do .
listen!
that’s right .
i’m serving under him to take advantage of him .
what unlucky event is up so early, that calls me from my morning's rest?
listen ,  your romeo will be here tonight .
oh ,  my heart ,  my heart is rising into my throat !
i thank you sir, you have gotten me one.
then your other senses must be getting worse because of the trauma of blindness .
who would that be?
he’s not wise enough to be brave .
no ,  don’t hit him ,  lieutenant !
it is, it is!
you never heard of the centaur ?
no ,  if you’ll speak ,  i’ll rant as well as you .
i will plague them all, even to the point of their roaring.
don’t just swear by it; put your hand to some use that will prove you love me .
if you were men, as you are men on the outside, you wouldn’t use a gentle lady like this: to vow, and swear, and super-praise my parts, when i am sure you hate me with your hearts.
i’m yours forever .
don’t saints and holy pilgrims have lips too ?
moody ?
the world has become so bad that now little wrens have settled where eagles used to roost .
what was it that you told me today—that your niece beatrice was in love with signior benedick ?
then you can be strong and say ,   “ bassanio's dead .  ”  my lord and lady ,  now it’s our turn ,  o cry ,   “ good joy ,  ”  we who have stood by and seen our wishes for you come true ,  good joy ,  my lord and lady !
this is the most miserable hour of all time !
tell him that ,  with his permission ,  fortinbras desires to carry out a promised march over his kingdom .
look ,  how he mocks me !
here's such a choice!
you knew ,  none so well ,  none so well as you ,  of my daughter's flight .
are you talking about caesar ?
what shall i swear by ?
or are you low ,  vulgar ,  and of the common people ?
oh ,  this is wonderful ,  wonderful—just wonderful wonderful !
what do i find here ?
o julius caesar, you’re mighty yet!
i’m glad that my weak words have brought out this show of fire from brutus.
you’ll beat me ?
is there no play to ease the anguish of a torturing hour ?
hang there on this tree ,  you lines of poetry ,  and bear witness to my love .
please let me go .
so i can sleep away the time while my antony is gone .
oh ,  how wonderful to see you !
the people fear me in the country and the town .
that octavius, antony, and lepidus have put to death an hundred senators by decrees of death and bills in defiance of the law.
oh ,  so madmen like you are also deaf .
no .
you have all served me well ,  and kings are your peers .
by jesus ,  he will defend his position on the practices of the ancient roman wars as well as any military man in the world .
thus ,  i’ll leave without being kissed .
i want to head out tonight .
i’ll go with you ,  my lord ,  if you’ll allow me .
i want you to see the difference between us ,  so i pardon you even before you ask for a pardon .
it’s true !
no ,  come back ,  kate .
but he would feel even better if i could tell him that you had left antony and put yourself under his protection .
did you just call me  “ beautiful ”  ?
such ghosts and goblins in my life ,  that ,  on my arrival ,  without any delay ,  no ,  not even to wait for the grinding of the axe ,  my head should be chopped off .
he’s too good to have any compassion for you .
well then, here it is.
othello's occupation's gone!
what shall i swear by?
this fortification ,  gentlemen ,  shall we see it ?
you drive me past the bounds of a maiden's patience.
speak now.
and wouldn’t i be damned if i let this monster live to do more harm ?
good ensign ,  you are welcome .
it is not courteous ,  you know ,  to assume you know my meaning before i’ve finished talking .
indeed ?
this is mr .  antonio .
i feel tortured by all this talking .
is he alone?
for someone as intelligent as you the situation must be clear enough .
no, cousin, i'd rather cry.
truly ,  madam ,  i don’t hear anything .
yeah right!
it is very strange.
your plantain-leaf is excellent for that.
catesby ,  fly to the duke .
you would do very well, good reynaldo, before you visit him, to ask someone about his behavior.
don’t worry about me .
if that’s true ,  it’s a serious fault ,  and caesar has paid seriously for it .
if there is a man like that, heaven pardon him!
would your highness like to take a walk ?
we have slashed the snake but not killed it .
and trinculo’s drunk .
this is the jester i have met so many times in the forest .
no .
he does hear me ,  and that makes me cry .
and mine say a hundred and forty .
they didn’t come by you?
this will prove a brave kingdom to me, where i shall have my music for nothing.
very reverend signior ,  do you know my voice ?
your mind is tossing on the ocean, where your ships, with full sails — like gentlemen and rich citizens on the water, or as if they were in a procession of the sea— look over the minor merchants, that bow to them, pay them respect, as they fly by them with their woven wings.
she has light by her continually; it is her command.
it is shaped like a weasel.
o, here's a wit of kid leather, that stretches from an inch narrow to 45 inches wide!
or are you just pretending ?
where else should his eyes be ,  if not in his head ?
o, they are our friends, only one cup.
pay attention, pay attention, for such people die miserable.
i’m begging you.
sir and madam ,  to make grand speeches about what majesty is ,  what service is ,  or why day is day ,  night is night ,  and time is time is just a waste of a lot of day ,  night ,  and time .
then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her favors?
this relief only makes your sickly days longer.
i’m afraid he will beat me.
alack, i had forgotten.
why ,  then it is not a prison to you ,  for there is nothing either good or bad but only thinking makes it so .
yes ,  i am .
but now i see our weapons are like straws ,  our strength like a straw’s weakness ,  and our weakness past comparison ,  so that we seem to be the thing we most are not .
let’s hope his sense of shame will send him back to rome quickly .
i thank you ,  sir john ,  with all my heart .
those trumpets are calling us in to dinner .
i hear that edgar ,  gloucester’s exiled son ,  is with the earl of kent in germany .
a cat in heat will look for a mate ,  and rosalind certainly will too .
what are the chances of his getting better ,  lords ?
i’ll ask him for my job back; he’ll tell me i am a drunkard!
if you got what you deserved ,  you would learn some respect .
i am glad to see you well .
he hears me; and i weep because he does: i myself am naples, who saw,—and i haven’t stopped crying,—saw the king, my father wrecked.
o ,  vengeance !
now ,  my titania ,  wake up ,  my sweet queen .
instead of celia ,  call me aliena .
i know the man well .
why, don’t be afraid, man; i won’t default in payment; within the next two months, that's a month before this promise to pay expires, i expect to get a return of three times three of the value of this promise to pay.
but why should honor outlive honesty ?
yes, caliban, her son.
o, it is the spite of hell, the fiend's high mockery, to kiss a whore on a safe couch, and to suppose her to be chaste!
if he’s ready now ,  so am i .
they were paid to betray their master .
yet brutus says he was ambitious; and, sure, he’s an honorable man.
a serious calling lies on me like lead, and still i couldn't sleep.
let's hide, my lord.
what do you want ?
are you with a cornish company ?
well hello ,  my good boy .
now, in the names of all the gods at once, what meat does this our caesar eat that he’s grown so great?
i put my trust in you .
well ,  do whatever you think best .
what’s going on ,  my lord ?
that island of england breeds very valiant creatures .
baptista is a noble gentleman—one to whom my father is not completely unknown—and lovely as his daughter is ,  she is entitled to any number of suitors—myself among them .
i'll tell you what you shall do .
an old gray hare, and an old gray hare, is very good meat in lent; but a hare that is gray is too much to be billed when it ages before it used up.
tongue nor heart cannot comprehend or name you!
and why should caesar be a tyrant then?
what kind of loyalty is this ?
o ,  she was heavenly true !
charles did the same to the second brother ,  and the third .
age ,  shame on you !
where has he gone?
but try to control your speech .
follow!
here was a caesar !
but who cares .
i’ll take the banner from a trumpeter and use that .
aside.
listen to me ,  queen .
my name’s macbeth .
it’s a trick to confuse us .
come, let’s go to the king; our power is ready; the only thing is missing is our leaving.
no ,  come to my cabin .
and hell chew on his bones!
i don’t mean that she wants me because  what’s she like ?
it does have a back like a weasel’s .
again, again!
this is what happened: he and cleopatra sat on chairs of gold on a silver - covered stage in the marketplace .
affliction is in love of your parts, and you are married to calamity.
he is made of treachery ,  and has run away to avoid his crimes .
she gave it to him ,  and he gave it to his whore .
indeed ,  they are out of proportion; my letters say a hundred and seven galleys .
the king performs more wonders than seem humanly possible ,  challenging every enemy he sees .
romeo ,  are you crazy ?
where is he now ?
what’s wrong with you ?
no ,  it’s just after twelve; i heard the clock strike .
stay away for now ,  and good night ,  my sweet friend .
breaks my head across?
some people in the street are crying  “ romeo .  ”  some are crying  “ juliet ,  ”  and some are crying  “ paris .  ”  they’re all running in an open riot toward our tomb .
i’d rather be a slave or a packhorse for this hateful stablehand here .
nice grumio ,  bring me some .
gentlemen all ,  i suspect this trash to be a party to this injury .
i’d be wasting my skills dealing with an idiot like that if i couldn’t get something useful out of him .
person when you’re ready ,  if you’re inclined .
alas ,  our poor country !
how dare you tell us about god’s laws when you have broken them so savagely yourself ?
good—here’s the stretcher .
swear by this bottle how you came here—i escaped on a barrel of wine ,  which the sailors heaved overboard ,  by this bottle !
why, “as by lot, god knows,” and then, you know,”it came to pass, as most like it was.” the first line of the holy song will show you more, for look where my means of whiling away the time comes.
i wish you’d be patient .
this used to be contradictory, but now the time proves it’s true.
and so it is.
i have long thought i would see this morning's face ,  and does it give me such a sight as this ?
one of your tears is worth everything that was won and lost .
do you remember her face ?
how will that kill this marriage ?
this will prove a brave kingdom to me ,  where i shall have my music for nothing .
i don’t think you’re treating me fairly .
and if you rattle on about mountains ,  then let them throw millions of acres over us .
your spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords into our own guts.
get to the point now .
oh !
god knows i loved my niece ,  and now she’s dead—slandered to death by cowards who would just as likely fight a real man as i would grab a poisonous snake by the tongue .
did old bellario send you here ?
help ,  help !
why ,  you deboshed fish you ,  was there ever a coward that has drunk so much sack as i have today ?
please stop turning me around .
alas ,  thrice - gentle cassio !
where is the count’s page who called the guards?
it’s out already!
see, who comes here?
why not ?
i am glad to see you well.
o ,  my mind is full of scorpions ,  dear wife !
i’ll go look for him—cassio ,  stay around here .
or ,  if you don’t mind ,  come to my home ,  and i’ll wait for you .
my lord, what is your will?
being surrounded like this with evil plans, before i could start thinking about it, before they could execute the plan, i sat myself down, though up a new order, wrote it just like the original.
she didn’t ask anything ?
oh ,  not you again .
by hercules ,  i think i’m right .
please treat my babies well .
don’t presume too much about my friendship; i may do something that i’ll be sorry for.
a very pleasing night to honest men .
this is as it should be.
we’ll meet macbeth there .
i’ll get myself a fur - trimmed suit .
did you hit your head ?
what’s done cannot be undone.
i'll go to him; he is hidden at lawrence' cell.
if it takes on my noble father's appearance ,  i’ll speak to it ,  though hell itself should open wide and order me to be silent .
i don’t know what you’re talking about .
there’s still a bit of daylight in the sky .
o ,  sweet my mother ,  don’t push me away !
but i have none.
oh ,  and then at the very next turn ,  don’t turn left or right ,  but turn down and around to the jew’s house .
it’s true ,  he died on the day my sister turned thirteen .
thank god ,  thank god !
have you never heard the saying ,  two may keep counsel ,  putting the other one away ?
oh ,  that’s disgusting !
i pardon that man .
on the contrary .
i look forward to getting to know you better ,  mr .  mustardseed .
very bad luck !
good night .
by divine providence.
he gave syria ,  cilicia ,  and phoenicia to ptolemy .
when we love our job we get up early and go to it joyfully .
if that’s the way it goes ,  why does it seem unusual with you ?
how could i honorably give him what i’ve already given you ?
the dance done ,  i'll watch to see where she’ll stand ,  and ,  touching her hand ,  will make blessed my rude hand .
romeo!
in every detail.
well ,  it doesn’t matter anymore .
but ,  wait ,  take this garland for your head .
oh no !
it is a villain ,  sir ,  that i don’t like to look at .
that's not a job for a friend, my lord.
if he has a face like yours ,  a good scratching couldn’t make him look any worse .
by mary, to… come, captain, will you go?
so you couldn’t see his face ,  then ?
it is a monstrous birth of love to me ,  that i must love a loathéd enemy .
the noblest men who ever walked on leather have walked on my handiwork .
and if they don’t find charity there ,  they find it someplace else .
o god!
if i ever dreamt about such a matter, hate me.
it is the poisoned cup; it is too late.
o strange !
is it that early in the day ?
we haven’t spoken about the torchbearers yet.
then let’s say you are sad because you are not happy; and it’s easy to say that because you laugh and leap and say you are happy, because you are not sad.
whether they meant to bathe in fresh ,  bleeding wounds ,  or create another crucifixion scene ,  i cannot tell .
cousin hamlet, you know the wager?
dear duff ,  i beg you ,  contradict yourself ,  and say it is not so .
are you planning on showing me all your wit at once ?
the turkish armies are headed for rhodes; so i was asked to report here to the state by signior angelo .
alas ,  my lord ,  your confidence is getting the better of your wisdom .
i’ve told you what i intend to do ,  and i’ve sworn by the holy sabbath to seek the penalty that is due according to our contract .
my god ,  i’m the highest - ranking person who speaks this language—if only we were back where it’s spoken .
for none neither .
cassio, my lord, has killed a young venetian called roderigo.
protect me ,  my friends .
i swear ,  i love you .
but roderigo ,  if you’re as courageous and determined as i think you are ,  then wait just a bit longer .
if, my dearest father, you have put the wild waters into this fury by your magic, stop them.
tell me right now and stop fooling: where’s the money ?
and smelled like that ,  too ?
why would you do that ,  my love ?
oh wall ,  you have heard my moans very often ,  for separating my fair pyramus and me .
to speak honestly ,  and with no addition to the facts ,  we go to gain a little patch of ground that’s not worth anything except its name .
is that the man ?
listen to me, because i will speak.
prostitute ,  i’m coming !
it waves me still.
arm ,  arm ,  and attack !
i’m going ahead to get my spot to see him pass on his way to the capitol.
remember it, my lord!
with nothing but truth.
hamlet, you have offended your father very much.
a pickaxe and a spade, a spade, for and a shrouding sheet, oe a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is ptoper.
signior, is your family all inside?
and are you living ,  stephano ?
one hundred sixty-eight hours?
not crazy, but more tied up than a madman is; i am shut up in prison, kept without my food, whipped and tormented and— good day, good fellow.
i’m sure everything will be fine .
go on; carry this.
the dauphin really wants it to be morning .
i hear him mock caesar’s luck ,  which the gods give to men in order to balance out their subsequent wrath .
i know this act looks horrible and grim .
there’s not a strand of feather left in our whole army—a good sign ,  i hope ,  that we won’t fly away like birds—and time on the field has made us slovenly .
signior ,  is your family all inside ?
no.
his forward voice now is speaking well of his friend; his backward voice is uttering dirty speeches and insults .
what do you mean ?
lady olivia will have you executed for not showing up .
is it possible ?
toad, that has spent thirty one days and nights under cold stone, from whose sweat a sleeping venom was gotten, boil you first in the charmed pot!
i’m the man she wants .
since you left ,  i’ve been enjoying the sweetest sleep and most promising dreams i’ve ever had ,  my lords .
let the gods judge me !
i can’t say  “ whore .  ”  it makes me sick to say the word even now .
o you stupid moor!
your drugs are quick .
maybe the king is sending you to the tower to have you renamed .
yes ,  and i’ll keep crying a while longer .
my soul is full of sorrow .
oh ,  sad day !
the strangeness of your story made me very sleepy.
in that case i’m afraid you’re damned by both your father and your mother .
well .
once more ,  on pain of death ,  all men depart .
o ,  the heavens !
agreed .
are you a married man or a bachelor ?
will you please go ,  my lord ?
mend ”  me ,  you impertinent fellow ?
the sight made me so sick i couldn’t watch any more .
well ,  i’ll get my revenge .
the sooner ,  sweet ,  for you .
oh ,  the sixpence you gave me last wednesday to buy leather goods for my mistress ?
i don’t like sports .
by mary ,  before your ladyship ,  i grant ,  she puts her voice a little in her heart ,  and scolds by thinking .
go now ,  and pretend to be a friendly hostess .
that handkerchief which i so loved and gave you ,  you gave to cassio .
but ,  othello ,  speak .
and what says my hidden lady to our canceled love?
listen how these instruments summon us to supper!
now to my word: it is goodbye ,  goodbye !
then i wish to god that i had never seen it !
wait ,  tybalt ,  wait !
that’s five to one .
here .
but please tell me ,  who’s his best friend ?
goodbye.
you’re kidding !
o ,  yes ,  and soundless too ,  because you’ve stolen their buzzing ,  antony ,  and very wisely threaten before you sting .
good to see you ,  signior hortensio .
treason!
caesar !
i know you know something about how excellent laertes is—
why, whose is it?
yes ,  we should get his support ,  for his mature presence will make others think well of us and speak out in support of our actions .
such a wagon driver as phaeton (the son of the sun god) would whip you to the west and bring in a cloudy night immediately.
run as if your life depended on it .
don’t stay here ,  go away .
if he hears you, you will make him angry.
when he raised his arm in command ,  the world trembled .
if any of my relatives find you here they’ll kill you because of who you are .
goodbye .
a thin face ,  which you don’t have; a sleepless ,  sunken eye ,  which you don’t have; an irritable temper ,  which you don’t have; a neglected beard ,  which you don’t have—but that might not be so telling ,  since you don’t have much beard anyway .
i hear horses.
this is the tune of our song ,  played by the picture of nobody .
is it fitting that, with the world divided into three parts, he should be one of the three to share it?
where has caesar deserved your loves like this ?
the guilty speak volumes even when they’re silent .
that’s a kind of bastard hope indeed; so the sins of my mother should be laid on me .
travel to mantua.
what!
can heaven be so jealous?
ha ,  ha !
where ,  sir ?
widow dido; yes ,  widow dido .
whose solid virtue could be neither grazed nor pierced by the shot of accident or dart of fate ?
now ,  tailor ,  let’s see what you’ve got .
how was this sealed ?
knock, knock, knock!
i can’t believe that dog ,  that rat ,  that mouse ,  that cat could scratch me to death !
it’s strange that regan and her husband left their house without sending back my messenger .
why, you were with him, weren’t you?
scurvy knave !
happily ,  in faith; i'll put my seal to such a promise to pay ,  and say there is much kindness in the jew .
the body is with the king, but the king is not with the body.
yes ,  he spoke in greek .
robin starveling ,  you’re going to play thisbe’s mother . —tom snout ,  the handyman .
darkness is stumbling out of the sun’s path like a drunk man .
me too ,  lieutenant .
the earth has bubbles ,  just like the water ,  and these creatures must have come from a bubble in the earth .
i’m telling you the truth .
in faith, i will.
fulvia’s death and the pressing concerns related to it are not the only reasons i am eager to go; friends in rome have also sent many letters advising my return .
if it turns out that she really is running around on me ,  i’ll send her away ,  even though it’ll break my heart .
where’s monsieur cobweb ?
and we will raise your wages .
or to be naked with her friend in bed an hour or more ,  not meaning any harm ?
two weeks and a couple of days .
come, madam, let’s leave.
guilt is so full of artless jealousy, that it spills itself in fearing to be spilled.
i am maimed forever.
will you dine with me tomorrow ?
you are right ,  it’s for my mistress .
now he feels his title hang loose about him, like a giant's robe upon a dwarfish thief.
good - bye ,  good queen .
what are they doing on the road ?
play your flutes !
who ever would have thought it?
wait ,  you incomplete speakers ,  tell me more .
my belongings are on the ship already .
thirty - five or thirty - six of his knights met him at the gate ,  and together with some others they’ve set off for dover ,  where they claim to have powerful friends .
come, ruin!
follow my mother.
what committed!
or i’ll deliver your insults to his face .
but stay calm ,  and don’t get carried away by rage ,  or i’ll think you’re not a man .
consider yourself more dearly ,  or ,  not to keep harping on that poor phrase ,  doing harm to it ,  you'll  “ offer ”  me a fool !
since birth is heaven and heaven is earth ,  all three meet in you at once ,  which you would lose at once .
corporal nym ,  be a man and put away your sword .
no ,  you have to swear it .
no ,  madam .
faith, i don’t know what to say.
i hope you’re an expert in your field .
my fortune—like that of many of us tonight—is to go drunk to bed .
i think a story like that would win my own daughter over .
well ,  what is it ?
where is my romeo ?
and then the lion vanishes .
sleep dwell upon your eyes ,  peace in your breast !
noble antony ,  even illness couldn’t keep me away .
i thought i was, and i thought i had,—but a man is only a mended fool, if he will offer to say what i thought i had.
you stopped me .
you are a fool; be quiet.
what can i do for you ?
has his largest ship lost, coming from tripolis.
good ,  good ,  i like that—it’s only fair !
listen, listen!
yes, surely; o heaven!
as for myself ,  it was greek to me .
he's gone.
your sons will be kings, even though you will not be king.
he is my dear friend ,  your majesty .
what  “ passion ”  ?
let’s go, my good men!
i have a good reason to cry ,  but my heart will splinter into a hundred thousand pieces before i let myself cry . —oh ,  fool ,  i’ll go mad !
know him !
if the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife is awake, tell her there's one cassio begs a little favor of speaking with her.
they say gloucester’s bastard son is .
you couldn’t find out anything about them ?
good mr .  peaseblossom ,  i’d like to get to know you better too . —and you ,  may i ask what your name is ,  sir ?
come with me to see the duchess .
you are a remarkable person and your loss is equally remarkable .
o god !
what kind of question is that !
goodbye, good strato.
come on ,  brother !
hold your tongue .
if you meet horatio and marcellus, the ones who will watch with me, tell them to hurry up.
the abuse of greatness is when it disconnects remorse from power, and, to speak truth about caesar, i haven’t known a time when his emotions were swayed more than his reason.
this mean task of mine would be as heavy to me as hateful, except that the mistress i serve makes alive what's dead, and makes my labors pleasurable: oh!
that makes us kinder ,  to give them thanks for nothing .
by jove that thunders !
the reason is that it’s what i want .
whose was it ?
what’s she trying to say ?
then it’s confirmed !
come, hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
even though she’s as similar to goneril as one crabapple is like another ,  still… i know what i know .
ask them prepare inside .
me ,  ma'am ?
that’s the right attitude .
your death would prevent that .
i pulled it from his wound .
thus decoration is only the deceived shore to a most dangerous sea; the beautiful scarf veiling an indian beauty; in a word, the seeming truth which skillful times dress in to fool the wisest men.
i’ll give you more instructions later .
are you so patient and forgiving that you’re going to let him off the hook ?
do you lie so low?
you’ve got it .
how old is she ?
of so high and full intelligence and imagination !
i feel bad for scaring you like this ,  but it would be much worse for me to let you come to harm .
whatever your highness commands me to do ,  it is always my duty to do it .
your logic is so foolish .
i’ll give you mine .
dorset has fled to the earl of richmond .
oh ,  god help me !
o ,  don’t tell me about fear !
shake off your sleepiness .
hold the friar too .
i’ll have you whipped with wire and soaked in brine like a pickle ,  making your pain linger .
you don’t know that ?
must i endure all this?
yes ,  nurse; what of that ?
am i myself ?
a victory in battle is twice as victorious when all the soldiers return home safely .
an old italian fox is never that generous ,  my boy .
is there anything else i can do for you ?
how can i marry him ,  this husband ,  before he comes to court me ?
an awful monster !
would he have snuck away from me while i was asleep ?
no one will get food poisoning, sir; i'll watch to see if they lick their fingers.
i believe it .
what need we fear who knows it, when none can call our power to account?
it was his bidding; therefore, good emilia, give me my nightgown, and goodbye.
no ,  by saint jamy ,  i’ll bet you a penny !
anyone who says you’re a man must not notice how young you are .
i would like to get to know you better, good master cobweb.
i swear ,  i scorn the word .
why ?
listen how these instruments summon us to supper !
i hope lightning strikes her in the eyes !
but if you were married ,  you’d wield some influence .
yes ,  but he’d deny it all .
but, my good brother, don’t, as some insincere ministers do, show me the steep and thorny way to heaven, while, like a proud and reckless wild man, preaches against the primrose path of sin and does not practice what he preaches.
oh ,  sir ,  pardon me !
you mar all with this starting .
i swear i’m not lying .
if not ,  leave me alone ,  and i’ll stay away from your turf .
i hope you’re strong enough to do it .
sirs, why did you cry out like that your sleep?
like this, sir: although this lord of weak memory, this man who shall be remembered little when he is buried, here has almost persuaded,— because he's a spirit of persuasion, only he professes to persuade,—the king’s son is alive, it is as impossible that he's not drowned as he who sleeps here swims.
i do ,  in fact .
and he did bid us to follow him to the temple, didn’t he?
now i see that all three have gotten together to design this false joke in spite of me.
wipe your eyes .
give your thoughts to yourself ,  and don’t act without thinking .
another general shout !
you ,  who are neither honest nor good .
we three are married ,  but you two are defeated .
did you fall ?
the sweetest nut has the sourest rind and rosalind is that kind of nut .
but she is no virgin .
give it to my wife ,  and get your money .
what did your song predict, lady?
so i suppose your grace can truly say that i have lost it .
i will not do them wrong .
we'll start rumors that praise your excellence and exaggerate the fame the frenchman gave you, bring you together in the end, and place bets on your fight.
yes ,  even if i had a thousand more pounds than that ,  for i hear that you are  me ,  too .
we haven’t been able to meet on a hill or in a valley ,  in the forest or a meadow ,  by a pebbly fountain or a rushing stream ,  or on the beach by the ocean without you disturbing us .
why ,  there was a crown offered to him ,  and when it was offered to him ,  he pushed it away with the back of his hand ,  like this ,  and then the people started shouting .
the noise they’re making will wake up demetrius .
here comes oberon .
if she can’t find out what’s wrong ,  then send him to england ,  or lock him up where you think is the best place .
my uncle !
what did he tell you ,  ophelia ?
i drink this vial to you .
well ,  let’s get to our work .
yes ,  my lord ,  quite well .
demetrius ,  i'll swear it on his head ,  pursued nedar's daughter ,  helena ,  the same way ,  and won her soul; and she ,  sweet lady ,  loves ,  devoutly loves ,  loves to the point of divine worship ,  this spotted and inconstant man .
stop ,  oh !
come on .
then i beat my drum ,  at which point they pricked up their ears and opened their eyes ,  looking around for the source of my music .
the second rooster has crowed ,  the curfew bell has rung ,  it’s three o'clock .
my memory is hazy ,  more like a dream than a recollection .
didn’t a woman give birth to him ?
was it hamlet who wronged laertes ?
do you doubt that?
can’t you see that ?
as the indifferent children of the earth .
what other bonds than secret romans ,  that have spoken the word ,  and will not negotiate without honor ?
kill me tomorrow; let me live tonight !
something is rotten in the state of denmark .
what sadness lengthens romeo's hours ?
does everyone kill what they don’t love ?
i come to go get you to the senate-house.
if it’s true ,  how little is the cost i have paid in purchasing the image of my soul from out of the state of hellish cruelty !
o, what other favor can i do for you than to end the youth of your enemy with the same hand that cut your youth half?
now that i think about it ,  maria was the one who first told me you were insane .
you mean you don’t even want to hear my side ?
why can’t imagination trace the noble dust of alexander until he finds it stopping a wine barrel?
with no more ceremony than that ?
another case: king lewis the tenth ,  who was sole heir to the usurper capet ,  could not rest easy as king until he was assured that queen isabel ,  his grandmother ,  was a direct descendent of the lady ermengare ,  daughter of the aforementioned charles duke of lorraine ,  by which marriage the line of charles the great was reunited with the throne of france .
the games are finished, and caesar is returning.
cheers ,  boys .
is love a tender thing?
my god ,  what a great song !
ho!
regards to theseus, our renowned duke!
my wife !
hold off burying her until i’ve caught her in my arms once more .
but tell me what you’re fighting about .
luck and antony separate here and now .
thursday it is ,  then .
it looks that way .
yes ,  my lord .
i'll be with you soon.
our captains ,  macbeth and banquo ,  were not upset by this ?
what is this passion that ties up my tongue ?
no ,  don’t pause ,  because i
an unauthorized kiss .
am i on earth ,  in heaven ,  or in hell ?
and for that offence we immediately exile him from here.
but come ,  i'll tell you all about my whole plan when i am in my coach ,  which waits for us at the park gate; and so hurry ,  because we must travel twenty miles today .
poor bird!
look ,  sir ,  here the lady is coming toward my cell .
don’t you have any manners ,  you savage ?
don’t come in here ,  uncle !
madam, i go with all convenient speed.
worse and worse.
my old brain is troubled .
my master’s calling me .
good morning ,  general .
come with me ,  sir .
stay here for a moment .
that last part is true; my rest was the sweeter.
i saw the handkerchief .
what, must our voices be ignored?
o ,  ho !
so ,  if they die unprepared ,  the king is no more guilty of their damnation than he was guilty of the earlier crimes they’re finally being punished for .
tell us where it is ,  that we may take it from there ,  and carry it to the chapel .
but goodbye; i have some business to see to.
i’ll tell you as soon as i know ,  richard ,  because at this point i have no idea .
no ,  it’s certain ,  iras .
i’ll do it .
amen !
i’m here; what do you want ?
the son and heir of old tiberio .
he’s waiting nearby to find out if you’ll invite him in .
you are welcome ,  masters ,  welcome ,  all .
it is a strange truth.
right .
i’ll listen to cassius ,  and we will compare their reasons .
there's comfort in that .
i heard the galloping of horses .
oh my god ,  what a terrible world this is !
if you’re trinculo ,  then come out .
now all the young men of england are inspired and have stored their party clothes in the closet .
that’s true ,  and with good reason .
is he sane?
my father… i think i see my father.
oh ,  let me remember what happened to hastings and hurry to
oh ,  i’m sure you don’t dislike him so much as to wish he were here alone ,  even though you say this to find out how the rest of us feel .
well, well, well, pray god it be, sir.
o cassio ,  where did you get this ?
my father ,  led by a poor peasant ?
i won’t keep you very long .
i’d trust him with everything i own .
her chaste ,  white gown is only sick and green ,  and only fools wear it .
warm ,  honestly !
quick ,  let’s hide ,  my lord .
why won’t he ?
it was ,  as i have seen it in his life ,  a silvery sable .
fury ,  fury ! —get over there ,  tyrant ,  there .
what do these master-less and gory swords mean by lying here with blood on them in this place of peace?
are you sincere?
when you have to steal your own wives some day ,  i’ll wait for you just as long .
poor romeo ,  he is already dead !
i wouldn’t dream of opposing such an obviously promising idea .
romeo ,  get out of here .
i will ,  my hermia .
no boasting like a fool ,  this deed i'll do before i change my mind .
do ,  my good friend .
i shall .
have them come in .
that’s what makes it  “ sensitive ”  news .
oh well .
things for the cook ,  sir; but i don’t know what .
no ,  don’t go back .
if it’s bad ,  why has it given me promise of success ,  that began with a truth ?
after you cast your magic spell on me last time ,  i sent you a ring .
now ,  what's the latest ?
tell me who shall have the better luck ,  caesar or me ?
turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but, at the next turning of all, on your left; damn it, at the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the jew's house.
tortured ,
the east is very seductive .
as i told you before ,  i am subject to a tyrant ,  sorcerer ,  that has cheated me of the island by his cunning .
hey ,  you !
noble brutus has mounted the platform .
we’ll take you there .
you may convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty, and yet seem cold, the time you may so deceive.
please, let’s go and find out where he is, and help burn up his tangled depression with some delight or other.
then immediately call the rest of the watch together and thank god that you’ve gotten rid of such a criminal .
i’m tired of this moon .
my soul, and not my child!
poison never came from such a sweet place .
follow me then.
is supper ready ?
i’ll bring you there .
do what you want to do, because i’m finished with you.
there are tears for his love; joy for his fortune; honor for his valor, and death for his ambition.
buy food and put on some weight .
no, my hand will rather redden the many seas, making the green one red.
this play is the image of a murder done in vienna .
go and put on your own armor .
let’s do so ,  because we are on trial ,  and surrounded by many enemies ,  and some that have smiles in their hearts ,  i’m afraid ,  are capable of millions of evil deeds .
and when she left just now ,  she said  “ take care of this poor fellow here .  ”  fellow !  ”  not  “ malvolio ,  ”  not anything referring to my low station in life ,  but  “ fellow .  ”  everything’s going perfectly .
there, my lord.
which he quickly allowed ,  given that you’re an obstacle to his lust .
but she is wise .
yes ,  my lord .
how will we pass the time without some entertainment ?
now i want her more than ever .
yes ,  what about it ?
my noble kinsman ,  welcome .
oh dardanius !
when did you lose your daughter ?
i’ll stay in messina until you’re married ,  and then i’ll go to aragon .
o cursed spite ,  that ever i was born to set it right !
his shroud is as white as the mountain snow ,  alas ,  look here ,  my lord !
good madam, what's the matter with my lord?
he’s slept a long time .
not long ago you challenged and opposed your brother ,  and it is only very recently that he has forgiven you .
and talk like a parrot ?
and when some lowlife protests that  stop ,  and eat no more .
come with me ,  silvius .
was the hope you dressed yourself in drunk ?
sir ,  he may still be alive .
ok!
it is a massive wheel, set at the top of the highest mountain, in which its huge spokes, ten thousand little things are firmly glued together, that, when the wheel falls, each small piece, insignificant event, adds to the noisy ruin of the country.
it does, holy sir; and my master is in there, one that you love.
he's married.
for that reason, take our last, eternal goodbye.
do it.
in my bedroom window there is a book .
you’re taking a shorter route .
when the barrel’s empty ,  we’ll drink water .
hail to your majesty .
a sailor’s wife had chestnuts in her lap and munched away at them .
if there’s any good deed i can do that will bring you peace and me honor ,  speak to me .
being unprepared, our wishes became the servants to what we lacked, which has worked out very well.
who shall prevent you from it ?
what a tedious wait !
here at the door; i beg you, call them in.
i didn’t see them .
let’s go .
your peace of mind depends on him .
by my holy order ,  i thought your disposition was of a better temper .
the taming school ?
so if we know that a man is a thief ,  should we try to arrest him ?
what news ,  my lord ?
master fer !
what’s wrong with me ,  that every noise makes me jump ?
speak but one rhyme ,  and i am satisfied; cry but  “ ah me !  ”  pronounce but  “ love ”  and  “ dove; ”  speak one fair word to my godmother venus ,  one nickname for her almost blind son and heir ,  young auburn cupid ,  he that shot the arrow so well when king cophetua loved the beggar - maid !
what do you want ?
the same thing .
do you know where we may catch her and the moor?
this is no place for you; this home is now a slaughterhouse .
not one drop sooner .
if i can hide my face, let me play thisbe too.
that’s it—i’m done .
why have your rosy cheeks faded so quickly ?
if i cut my finger ,  i’ll use you as a bandage to stop the bleeding . —and your name ,  sir ?
please, remember i have worked faithfully for you, told you no lies, made no mistakes, served without a grudge or grumblings.
oh friar ,  damned souls use the word banishment to describe hell .
what kept you from telling him this ?
ratcliffe ,  come here .
othello ,  leave some officer behind ,  and he shall bring our commission to you ,  with such things of quality and respect as are important to you .
now i see it is true.
who’s calling for me ?
caesar ,  i will .
let the devil and his dam haunt you!
no ,  i don’t—except as a friend .
yes ,  just like this .
by mary ,  my child ,  early next thursday morning ,  the gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman ,  the count paris ,  at st .  peter's church ,  shall happily make you there a joyful bride .
surely he that made us with such large capacity ,  looking before and after ,  didn’t give us that capability and godlike reason to go stale in us ,  unused .
nor i, my lord, really.
you’re sure the handwriting is your brother’s ?
what will you give me now for that same handkerchief ?
give me some light .
i hope that we may ,  but my heart is still very much afraid of him ,  and my gut feeling is that he cannot be trusted .
i mean what i say .
there i shall test ,  in my speech ,  how the people takethe cruel actions of these bloody men; once i know that ,  you shall tell young octavius the state of things .
he’ll release him .
can she give that away too ?
a man who can tell the future is telling you to beware march 15 .
and for the sake of those you grieve for ,  do me a favor: tell me the full story of what has happened to you and them ,  up to this point .
madam ,  i will .
i could have sworn he trampled on me .
faith ,  i intend to .
am i that name ,  iago ?
antonio !
with a web as little as this, i’ll catch as big a fly as cassio.
is fleance going with you ?
it has no fighting spirit .
here it is ,  i think .
why ,  isn’t all this joking better than groaning about love ?
all right .
since macbeth went to war ,  i have seen her rise from her bed ,  put on her nightgown ,  unlock her closet ,  take out some paper ,  fold it ,  write on it ,  read it ,  seal it up ,  and then return to bed ,  remaining asleep the entire time .
the glowworm shows the morning is near, and he begins to put out his ineffective fire.
my lord ,  i’m leaving .
bring me to him .
no ,  i must let them find me .
i’ll never believe a madman until i can see his brains .
hurry to your chamber .
i can’t remember there being another like it .
do they grow rusty?
so ,  my sweet brother - in - law ,  go inside .
it doesn’t sound as sweet as it did before .
music!
this is not an act of man, nor any sound like those on earth:—i hear it now above me.
he’d better not speak badly of brutus here .
and i’ll call your husband here.
here's someone comes in his shirt ,  with light and weapons .
ride ,  ride ,  messala .
hall to you ,  lady !
then why be jealous of a person like that ?
listen ,  listen !
my worthy lord ,  your noble friends are missing you .
i know him well.
and have i ever seemed less than modest or appropriate to you ?
i will .
see the wound that casca made .
did my heart love till now?
i remember the first time caesar ever put it on; it was on a summer's evening, in his tent, that day he overcame belgium.
the king never sighed by himself ,  but with the whole country’s groan .
that’s really news !
it’s good for your fresh wound and your bloody noggin .
say something .
i have such deadly drugs, but mantua's law gives the death penalty to anybody who sells them.
our advance will so dazzle the enemy that england will cower in fear and surrender .
listen !
whatever i think ,  i have to say .
can you keep your heavy eyes open awhile ,  and play a song or two on your harp ?
wife ,  children ,  servants ,  all that could be found .
look ,  she’s spotted him with those sweet eyes of hers .
what then ,  sick ?
hero ,  the daughter and heir of leonato .
there’s going to be a storm .
you all know this cloak .
did you call?
i can’t get that song out of my head tonight .
meanwhile ,  after you .
you look tired .
i dare to do all that may become a man; who dares to do more is not a man .
pray you ,  peace !
to whom ?
it is a common thing… ha !
can a good thing hide itself ?
but it’s that you don’t love me .
if you can remember it ,  begin at this line ,  let me see ,  let me see .
come to my room later on .
you have nothing to be afraid of, my lord; i’ll do it.
what's the newest grief ?
a likely story !
oh ,  iras ,  charmian !
don’t do it ,  sir .
the duke will be here tonight ?
so i can eat lunch .
yes, tell me that, and stop my guessing.
what news, my love?
here, sir, is a ring she asked me give you, sir.
i say it’s the moon .
romeo .
thanks ,  courteous wall .
no, good my lord, don’t be angry.
gentlemen ,  calm down .
so awake when i am gone; for i must go now to oberon .
why not ?
do you lie so low ?
come on ,  we’re wasting precious daylight .
what, is he dead?
chat her up ,  sir andrew .
lights ,  lights ,  get us some lights !
and now, who knows but you, lorenzo, whether i am yours?
many people faint when they see blood .
soundly ,  my lord .
he has brought you figs .
his word is more miraculous than the magic harp .
like an invitation .
i assure you.
o young and noble cato ,  are you down ?
and i’m telling you it was burnt and dried out .
only i’m afraid your nature; it is too full of the milk of human kindness to a shortcut to power .
well ,  not in deed ,  madam ,  since i can’t do anything unchaste .
i must take out the embroidery ?
no ,  very pale .
whip him !
o ,  shut the door !
get down on your knees and thank heaven for sending you such a good man .
why, love, i say!
tomorrow ,  sir ,  i’m fighting for my reputation ,  and any man who gets away without a broken bone or two is an exceptional wrestler indeed .
i don’t know .
i did—and now i’ve got it !
hurry ,  go up to the roof .
lysander ,  look how i shake with fear !
you’re serious enough to know not to play games with satan .
i'll teach you how to flow .
that's my noble master!
and what did he say ?
i have rubbed this young pimple almost to the purpose, and he grows angry.
seek him, bid him come here.
i have made bold ,  iago ,  to send for your wife .
what if i’d said i saw him do something to hurt you ?
if you killed lysander while he was sleeping ,  then you’re already up to your ankles in blood .
give it to me!
the enemy is making its appearance on the battlefield .
may the heavens make our presence and our practices pleasant and helpful to him !
i am sorry that i was wrong about him.
they’re calling for dates and quinces in the pastry kitchen .
titinius, if you love me, mount my horse and hide your spurs in him, until he has brought you up to the troops over there and back here again that i may rest assured whether the troops over there are friend or enemy.
save you, friend cassio!
your husband ,  is noble ,  wise ,  judicious ,  and best knows what to do in these times .
what’s that ,  my lord ?
has she already forgotten her brave husband ,  prince edward ,  whom i stabbed on the battlefield three months ago in my anger ?
this guy’s wise enough to play the fool ,  and only clever people can do that .
i dare, my lord, to bet that she is honest, burn me at the stake.
dear god ,  thank you !
o ,  there has been a lot of bashing of brains going on .
he’s dead and rotting in the dirt now .
cobweb .
travel to mantua .
do you see this ,  o god ?
i sneeze on your manhood .
you take your beauty sleep now .
my name is hortensio ,  sir .
oh, wise and upright judge, how much more older are you than your looks!
oh ,  my reputation ,  iago ,  my reputation !
it is even so.
doesn’t he deserve it ?
i believe you are ,  regan .
juliet!
carry him gently to bed ,  and every man be ready at his post when he awakes .
you are looked for and called for ,  asked for and sought for in the great chamber .
this murderous arrow that's been shot has not yet hit its target, and our safest way is to avoid the aim.
hey ,  hey !
the king comes here tonight .
oh ,  yes ,  benedick has returned and is as cheerful as ever .
we hope your poison has worn off and this day shall transform all grievances and quarrels into friendship .
never, my lord.
i hear a voice that is more shrill than all the music yelling, "caesar"!
not so fast .
who ,  i ,  my lord ?
go with me to the tomb.
a noble prisoner !
in terms of choice, i am not only led by the nice direction of a maiden's eyes; besides, the lottery of my destiny doesn’t give me the right to choose voluntarily; but, if my father had not restricted me and controlled me by his wit, to give myself as his wife to the one who wins me by that means i told you, you yourself, renowned prince, would then stand as fair as any other man i have looked on yet for my affection.
i’ll hide behind the tapestry to hear what they say .
who gets up from a meal with the same appetite he had when he sat down ?
hail !
what can i tell you ?
no ,  girl !
from now on ,  goodness in women ,  not superficial beauty ,  will win my heart .
quickly ,  quickly ,  please ,  draw the curtain right away; the prince of aragon has taken his oath ,  and comes to make his choice now .
the hell with order !
and i ,  for disregarding your feud too ,  have lost a number of relatives .
but goodbye; i have some business to see to .
there was more nonsense ,  if i could only remember it .
but shhh !
i want to get to know you as well ,  good master mustardseed .
who delivered it ?
noble mercutio ,  put your sword away .
yours, i swear.
i think i do.
oh painful sympathy !
but tell me this: don’t you know my voice ?
where are my swiss guards ?
if our play had gone forward ,  we would’ve all been made men .
othello, the strength of the place is best known to you; and although we have there a force that is more than adequate, yet public opinion, a sovereign mistress of effects, say we need a safer voice, like you.
and to see how he prizes the foolish woman, your wife!
the moon ?
don’t forget the vows we made to each other .
no ,  it is four months ,  my lord .
if it weren’t for the fact that so many of our soldiers revolted and joined them ,  we could have met them out in front of the castle ,  man to man ,  and beaten them back to england .
yes, sir, for three months.
well ,  then he must be alive .
alas, my lord, i have been so frightened!
now would you please listen once again to the request i made to you earlier ?
i hope so too ,  madam .
i only think of the world as the world, gratiano; a stage, where every man must play a part, and my part is a sad one.
peter !
doesn’t the day break here?
the villainy you teach me i’ll use; and it shall be hard but i’ll make the lesson better .
but it is true,—without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk,—that the good antonio, the honest antonio,—oh, that i had a title good enough to keep his name company!— come, the whole story.
if you rightly think about the matter, caesar has had great wrong done to him.
therefore ,  fair hermia ,  think about what you’re doing ,  think about how young you are ,  examine your choices well ,  whether ,  if you don’t take your father's choice ,  you can endure life in a convent ,  to be shut up in a cloister ,  to live a childless nun all your life ,  chanting faint hymns to the cold ,  fruitless moon .
no one ,  brutus ,  no one .
i’m launcelot ,  who was your boy ,  is your son ,  and will be your child .
behold !
go home, be merry, and agree to marry paris.
i would choose to take my penalty .
because of me ?
why ,  man ,  he stands on top of the narrow world like the colossus of rhodes ,  and we little men walk under his huge legs and peep about to find ourselves disgraceful graves .
oh grim - looked night !
alas, you’ve misunderstood everything!
why ,  so did you .
in heaven.
tell us ,  bottom .
or else mismatched in terms of years;— oh spite !
the moon has set .
i will only say one more word here in the house, and i’ll go with you.
and if your clothes were as thin as mine ,  you’d really feel the air .
no ,  if you stare ,  we shall hear more soon .
that’s enough .
i can get the better of religion and a few flimsy vows between a misguided barbarian and a depraved venetian girl .
don’t let me hold you up ,  cassius ,  go if you like; i'll leave you .
exit romeo .
well ,  then ,  i thank you ,  though i’m such a beggar that even my thanks are not worth much .
you’re a pustule ,  a sore ,  a tumor digesting my bloodline .
tonight ,  i will throw writings in his windows ,  all tending to the great opinion that rome holds his name ,  by several different hands ,  as if they came from several citizens ,  in these writings ,  i will analyze ,  although obscurely ,  caesar's ambition .
do you think it is easier to play me than a pipe ?
this is some monster of the island ,  with four legs ,  who seems to me to have some kind of ache .
you’ve said it well .
absolutely—he is stuffed ,  like a dummy .
for brutus’s sake ,  i am indebted to you .
we’ll draw straws .
what do you want ?
is this the family tomb of leonato ?
my lady would never want to lose him .
now to my word: it is goodbye, goodbye!
slaying is the word; it is a deed that’s in style .
ah ,  leave it alone .
by this sword ”  is an oath ,  and oaths must be kept .
do you say this from heart ?
if your love was anything like mine—and i’m sure that no man has loved as i love now—exactly how many ridiculous actions did your fantasizing lead you to ?
you ought to be ashamed of yourself !
why is time so cheap about giving out hair ?
oh ,  sir ,  impetuous people learn their lessons from the consequences of their foolish actions .
and even if you throw everything you possess to the two of them ,  they’ll battle each other to the death to have it all .
i humbly thank you for it .
but don’t expect any more than that .
i’m not staying here to argue anymore .
i’d be still plucking the grass to know where the wind blows ,  looking over maps for ports and piers and roads; and every object that would make me afraid of misfortune to my ships ,  would make me sad without a doubt .
let’s take a little walk in the orchard before dinner .
i ,  sir ,  am dromio .
it’s worse than murder to humiliate a king’s messenger like this .
pray you sit still .
as i said before ,  antonio will guarantee the loan .
no ,  please ,  don’t let me play a woman; i have a beard starting t o grow .
he has much fertile land.
i’m only crazy sometimes .
let them guard the door .
ask them prepare inside.
have you met with him ?
beauty's officer is still red on your lips and in your cheeks, and death's pale flag is not yet planted there.
wait ,  here’s a coin for you .
o notable prostitute!
why ,  my boy ?
where am i going?
where are you from ?
what’s that noise ?
where ?
i’ll tell everyone what you did ,  even if it
wait, you incomplete speakers, tell me more.
always note, lucilius, when love begins to sicken and decay, it uses a stiff, cold ritual.
me either: i’m wide awake .
this is lucentio’s house .
the senate has concluded to give a crown to mighty caesar this day.
please don’t ruin any more trees by carving love poems on their barks .
i must eat my dinner.
roast me in fires of sulphur !
i’m sorry i said anything .
we argued about which was best ,  and now we won’t get either one .
he says they can’t do anything like this .
hey !
but god who has the plan of my journey on this sea, direct my sail!
titinius is lying face - up .
we need a more appropriate place to discuss cordelia and her father .
what is the prince's sentence ?
your daughter spent ,  as i heard ,  one night ,  in genoa eighty dollars .
here ,  sir !
the sun will not show his head for sorrow .
this is old ninny’s tomb .
i do believe it was he .
this man is pyramus ,  if you want to know; this beauteous lady is certainly thisbe .
i’ll have nothing else except this only; and now ,  i think ,  i have a mind to have it .
he’s furious because she stole an adorable boy from an indian king .
go ,  tubal ,  and meet me at our synagogue; go ,  good tubal; at our synagogue ,  tubal .
please, be my god.
from this point forward, i will always obey you.
she give it cassio!
what mercy can you give him, antonio?
he’s his homeland’s jewel .
of course we will .
all that i have to say ,  is to tell you that the lantern is the moon; i ,  the man in the moon; this thorn - bush ,  my thorn - bush; and this dog ,  my dog .
when should the three of us meet again ?
this play is the image of a murder done in vienna.
order his death immediately, and, with the traitor’s former title, greet macbeth.
dear lady, welcome home.
what ,  is antonio here ?
he trusts me well, the better my plan will work on him.
and kill your lady ,  too ,  who lives in you ,  by doing damned hate to yourself ?
we’re waiting here for you .
you spotted snakes, with double tongue, thorny hedgehogs, be not seen; newts and blindworms do no wrong; come not near our fairy queen.
i didn’t think you could be so angry.
you may do so; but let it be quickly so that supper is ready by five of the clock at the latest .
no ,  don’t cry ,  kind eros .
i wish that no one could avenge my cousin’s death except me !
someone adored me once ,  too .
if you look closely at alexander’s life ,  harry of monmouth’s stands up fairly well by comparison—for there are analogies in everything .
what i can do ,  i will; and i will do as much more than i dare do for myself .
no more moving?
if that were true ,  then i’d know your secret .
the pound of flesh that i want from him was very expensive .
o my lord, if my duty is too bold, it’s because my love has no manners.
hurry to your chamber.
so ,  farewell .
let’s go .
o, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps; and now falls on her bed; and then starts up, and calls tybalt, and then cries over romeo, and then falls down again.
where do i live ?
let him be for a bit .
don’t talk to me, because i won’t answer you.
it wasn’t the journey itself ,  uncle ,  but the troubles we encountered that made it wearisome and dull .
hail!
nature ,  i don’t accuse your weather of unkindness .
i have told you often ,  and i’ll tell you again and again ,  i hate the moor .
you will soon hear more.
madam !
i can’t go any further ,  sir .
you scolded me often for loving rosaline .
go get me something i can use to break down the door .
they’re forgiven ,  then ,  if they don’t see what they’re doing .
well then ,  here’s more money for you .
we don’t think so ,  my lord .
nor do we find him easy to figure out the reason why, because, with a crafty craziness, keeps his distance when we try to bring him to some confession of his true state.
let’s look in his pockets .
here ,  hang them on this clothesline .
do you hear that ,  men ?
and when is he leaving ?
you’ve come right on time .
meanwhile ,  i’d be gratified if you’d live and eat your food .
isn’t it possible to understand in another tongue ?
your servants were fighting your enemy’s servants before i got here .
i didn’t hear it.
as it is god’s will and pleasure ,  captain ,  i entreat you to come quickly to the king .
i did .
open it and read it .
we’ll talk more about this later . —egeus ,  i’m overriding your wishes .
your friends at pomfret ,  they’re the ones who need a priest .
i’m ready to hear you .
is that my prize ?
what's this?
i am jester to oberon and make him smile ,  as when i trick a fat horse that’s been eating beans into neighing like a newborn female; and sometimes ,  i hide near to the town gossip's beer mug ,  looking like a roasted crab; and ,  when the gossip drinks ,  i bob up ,  against her lips ,  and pour the ale on the withered skin of her neck skin all the way down .
it doesn’t matter that i hit him first .
stop crying .
no doubt ,  no doubt .
now, as you’re a roman, tell me the truth.
now we find that one traveler out of five will bring us news about them .
by his whimsical bat and his staff and his sandal shoes.
you’re welcome here .
none of these deranged rascals can shake me from my profession .
why ,  so; since you’ve gone ,  i am a man again .
i know our country’s disposition well; in venice they let heaven see the pranks they wouldn’t dare show their husbands; their best conscience isn’t to leave it unfinished ,  but to keep it unknown .
there are enemies here .
it’ll be ok.
i mean ,  with my head in your lap ?
look, love, what jealous streaks of sunlight lace the parting clouds over there in the east.
he’ll just turn it into a joke and torment the poor woman even more .
let me finish my curse .
i’m not talking about proof yet .
i beg you to tell me your name so i can use it in my prayers .
show us the way ,  sir .
i ,  who have heard the rumble of guns in battle—and thunder in the sky (heaven’s version of artillery) .
and before i make her normal again—i can cure her by treating her with another plant—i’ll make her give me that little boy as my page .
have you forgotten i’m your mother?
when good orators finish talking ,  they spit; when lovers do (god help us if they ever do) ,  they kiss .
caesar’s talking .
she had put a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers all around his hairy face, and that same dew, which sometimes was accustomed to swell like round and orient pearls on the buds, was now within the pretty flowers' eyes, like tears that were crying about their own sins.
this way doves with nimble wings draw love ,  and that’s why the wind - swift cupid has wings .
you are a lover; borrow cupid's wings ,  and use them to soar above that leaden soul .
well, jailer, let’s go on; i pray good bassanio comes to see me pay his debt, and then i won’t care.
what did your song mean ,  lady ?
welcome ,  gentlemen !
o weary calculations!
they are, my lord.
madam ,  it is ,  as long as you are pleased with the rest of it .
heaven rest them now !
my lord ,  what i say may be a little confused ,  since i’m half asleep and half awake .
the victim that smiles steals something from the thief; he robs himself that spends a unprofitable grief .
i will be satisfied or shamed.
a tomb must cover your sweet eyes .
your husband in your bosom lies dead there ,  and paris too .
oh ,  what a mean low - life i am !
i should really leave right away .
tell me that you’ll accept my love .
come now; what plays ,  what dances shall we have ,  to pass the three hours between our after - supper and bed - time ?
it is a monstrous birth of love to me, that i must love a loathéd enemy.
don’t let it ,  brutus .
how did you know it was she?
i want my sword .
that's sickening .
i can justify that better than you can justify sleeping with portia’s african servant .
no ,  honestly .
you must be patient a while.
be kind and courteous to this gentleman; jump into his steps as he walks and dance in his eyes; feed him apricots and dewberries, purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries; steal the honey bags from the bumblebees, and, for night lights, cut their waxen thighs, and light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes, in order to have my love go to sleep and wake up, and pluck the wings from painted butterflies, to fan the moonbeams out of sleeping eyes.
but stay;—oh spite !
hard working men that work here in athens, who never worked in their minds until now, and now they have toiled their bad memories to do this play in honor of your wedding.
please listen to me carefully .
have a seat .
how will i recognize you in the future ?
what’s done cannot be undone .
sweet lord ,  you lie to me .
crude slaves with greasy aprons ,  rulers ,  and hammers shall lift us up so everyone can see .
yes, she really did.
i beg you to continue to be patient .
that her father’s brother wants to be her husband ?
out, of love?
i didn’t find him at the elephant .
i’ve told her father ,  and he’s given his permission .
oh ,  good old man ,  you’re a great example of that old work ethic ,  where people worked because it was their duty ,  not just for the money .
how is it ,  my husband—oh ,  how is it—that you have become a stranger to yourself ?
i have to make do .
what!
it faded on the crowing of the rooster .
i know this is a joyful trouble to you ,  it is still only one .
it’s tragic because pyramus kills himself .
tell me .
i am your father's spirit, doomed for a certain time to walk the night, and during the day i am confined to burn in fires, until the evil crimes i had done in my life are burnt and purged away.
i have broken his command not to say so .
here’s mine .
not yet quite dead?
the things she has shamelessly hurled on me are beyond imagination .
francis flute, the bellows-mender.
come, i'll hide you among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
it’s stopped now—it must be played for some local god of the island .
these are gracious tears .
go away .
i'd rather kill myself .
my dearest cousin, i beg you, have patience yourself.
say something again .
do you want to sleep ?
he’s a marvelously witty fellow ,  no doubt ,  but i’ll outmaneuver him . —come over here; i’ll whisper a word in your ear .
regret that your mouth betrayed your actions .
only call me “love,” and i'll be baptized with a new name.
pink for flower.
the citizens are up, and tybalt is dead.
did you invite him, sir?
you absolute villain !
oh ,  i see .
why did you carry these daggers out of the room ?
too bad it’s spoiling our pleasure tonight .
even if you didn’t have the power to pull me ,  i would still be powerless not to follow you .
my mistress is in love with a monster.
if you’re a virgin ,  you’ll answer this question .
i wish i could sleep too—it would stop me from thinking .
a cry inside] damn their screaming!
come on .
call the duke of burgundy .
i’ll say goodbye once more .
give them hefty meals of beef and iron and steel ,  and they will eat like wolves and fight like devils .
cassio screwed her; ask your husband otherwise.
i don’t see any thisbe .
he that is yours ,  sweet lady .
do you see this sweet sight ?
why do you sharpen your knife so earnestly?
but now i have joyful new for you, girl.
friends both, go get some further assistance.
sadness and despair !
since no man has anything of what he leaves ,  what is it to leave soon ?
where's the baron of cawdor?
they’ll tell all .
it’s your turn now .
i want you to do some things for our wedding ,  and i also want to discuss something that concerns you both .
i’ll give you letters of introduction to some friends of mine who will help you .
o ,  give me your hand ,  one written along with me in sour luck's book !
i’ll tell them where you come from ,  though i don’t know who you are or what you want .
o, the sun shall never see that tomorrow!
great queen juno is coming .
let’s listen to him .
and ,  make no mistake ,  you’ll find ,  as we his subjects have ,  an amazing difference between the king as a young man and the way he is now .
so, we'll have some half a dozen friends, and that’ll be it.
the things that threaten me have only seen my back .
consider it done ,  my lord .
launcelot ,  what’s going on ?
no ,  don’t even mention him .
what?
that's the end.
oh ,  corin ,  i wish you could understand how much i love her !
is there division between my lord and cassio?
amen to that !
surely there's some magic in this handkerchief; i am very unhappy at the loss of it .
doesn’t my wit suit me well ?
cure her of that .
sir, you shall understand what has happened, which, as i think, you don’t know.
yes ,  we talked for a couple of hours .
as i was standing watch on the hill ,  i looked toward birnam ,  and i thought i saw the forest begin to move .
watch him.
how do you ,  pretty lady ?
i won’t any hooked instruments.
come on, tell me the truth.
i asked you again, then you scratched your head, and stamped your foot very impatiently.
why?
think about it.
what did he say ?
where ?
her body sleeps in the capulet tomb ,  and her immortal soul lives with the angels in heaven .
you have some plea for caesar ,  don’t you ?
sir ,  that’s well said and well thought out .
and my heart too.
here, catch this chest; it is worth the trouble.
they pulled out the guts of the sacrificed animal and couldn’t find its heart .
but that’s another story .
oh ,  my mistress ,  a villain has made a mockery of your love !
i’m coming .
can i go home when my heart is here ?
i will move them to storms of tears; i will rouse their pity in some measure.
what’s the treasure ,  uncle ?
to me it looks like a weasel .
mend me ,  you rude fellow !
it shall be done.
my sweet husband ,  i did not lock you out .
o spartan dog ,  more evil than anguish ,  hunger ,  or the sea !
but in the meantime ,  just assume that i’m paranoid—as i’m pretty sure i am—and keep thinking she’s innocent ,  please .
with the quick ,  intelligent wit she’s rumored to have ,  she can’t really be such a bad judge of character that she’d refuse a man as exceptional as signior benedick .
i’ve told you i’m your friend ,  and i’ll stick by you .
fair lovers ,  it’s good that we found you here .
why ?
tears exhibit my voice .
roderigo!
we’ll have another bear - baiting just to make him angry ,  and we’ll mock him till he’s black and blue .
let’s move again ,  my friends .
i only want idiots following my advice ,  the advice of a fool .
you know where she is .
you take out your sword too .
how are you, balthasar?
yes, on my honor.
this dagger shall forbid it .
we know we shall die, we know; it’s only time and drawing days out that men live on.
i’ll make myself invisible, and i eavesdrop on their conversation.
o clitus!
go to bed right this minute .
will you be committed to my hopes, if i depend on you?
all the charms of sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, fall on you!
if it’s possible to do this without putting yourself in danger ,  dear captain blunt ,  say goodnight to him from me and give him this important note .
a drum !
no ,  great king .
so they are possibly antony’s friends .
i see a woman may be made a fool of if she doesn’t have nerve enough to stand up for herself .
what’s the matter that they scream so loudly in the streets ?
please, peace.
it’s stopped;—and surely, it’s for some god of the island.
stand and fight ,  you overdressed servant ,  fight !
i don’t think it’s a good idea .
with who ?
are you a man ?
what ,  i’m a prisoner ?
listen to me, forget about her.
my lord?
i’m sure he will stay under control .
very humid ,  i can’t tell you how humid it is .
i hope they don’t attack us now .
he’s walking over there ,  sir .
listen to what the tyrant says .
oh ,  that’s very nice !
she’s the daughter of this famous duke of milan i heard so much about but never saw before .
i’d like to think all men have some hope .
we’ve seen the best our age has to offer .
and so do i.
he’s made me a christian .
these fogs which ,  falling in the land ,  have made every rough river so high that they have flooded the continents where they flow .
come ,  let’s go to the king; our power is ready; the only thing is missing is our leaving .
le roy ?
thank you for saying that .
i’ll do everything i can for you ,  cassio .
for my part, i have walked about the streets, giving in to the dangerous night; and, undressed like this, casca, as you can see, i have bared my chest to the thunder bolts; and when the angry, blue lightning seemed to openthe chest of heaven, i put myself even in the direction and the very flash of it.
i still have the smell of blood on my hand .
have you got eyes?
i did them for edward’s sake—and look how he rewards me . —oh god ,  if my prayers don’t satisfy you ,  and you have to avenge the wrongs i’ve done ,  at least punish me alone !
but i watched and noted where cupid’s arrow fell .
now ,  in the names of all the gods at once ,  what meat does this our caesar eat that he’s grown so great ?
what money ,  sir ?
silvius ,  tell this youth what it means to be in love .
and how does your happiness advance your own good fortune?
come with me .
i am friends with you all ,  and love you all ,  on this hope ,  that you shall give me reasons why and how caesar was dangerous .
how are you ,  madam ?
i’ll follow it.
live, and later you will say, a madman's mercy made you run away.
no, faith, my lord.
i don’t know whether he combined forces with those of norway ,  or aided the rebel with hidden help and supplies ,  or that with both he labored to overthrow his country's government ,  only his treasons ,  punishable by death ,  confessed and proven ,  have caused his downfall .
what do you say ?
so please listen to me .
it’s born of my  a witty mother !
we two, my lord, will guard your person while you sleep, and watch for your safety.
you are impatient as fire ,  to say that she was false .
you’ll be sick tomorrow because you’ve stayed up all night .
denmark’s a prison .
i didn’t think you could even be so angry .
if you’ve got tears, get ready to shed them now.
besides ,  they’re fresh .
my mother is waiting .
take him off to jail !
leave me for a bit .
sir , — one: speak .
tell him i have moved my lord on his behalf ,  and hope all will be well .
don’t bring me any more reports .
my name is pistol .
and i believe—unless this brain of mine is not so politically cunning as it used to be—that i’ve found out why hamlet’s gone crazy .
you think it’s a big deal that this fierce storm is soaking me to the skin .
so decide what loss your honor may receive if you listen to his songs with a too believing ear ,  or lose your heart ,  or lose your virginity to his wild sense of bad timing .
what soldiers ,  milk - face ?
i am ,  my lord ,  as well born as he is ,  as rich; my love is better than his; my fortunes ,  no matter which way you look at it ,  are as good as demetrius'; and ,  furthermore ,  which is more important than all these qualities ,  hermia loves me too !
believe me ,  king of shadows ,  i was really mistaken .
no; he only totally misses the truth.
othello's occupation's gone !
i was sure your lordship didn’t give it me .
my good lord, will you see the players well taken care of?
o you weed ,  who are so lovely beautiful ,  and smell so sweet ,  that the sense aches at you ,  i wish you had never been born !
he comes on a wish.
why did you it ?
i'll show you every fertile inch of the island; and i will kiss your foot .
do you have your answer yet ?
everyone join hands .
alas, alas!
what if i obey ?
my worthy lord, your noble friends are missing you.
not that i know of .
stand up if you’re really a man .
to bed, to bed; there's knocking at the gate.
with this in mind ,  speak ,  my lord .
will you meet me straightway at ninny's tomb ?
what’s going on ?
or are you only a dagger of the mind, a false creation, proceeding from the brain oppressed by heat?
this isn’t a monster ,  it’s a devil .
i really do believe your highness; and did it to provide opportunity to these gentlemen ,  who have similar common sense and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing .
where should we meet ?
like a fire that gets covered up ,  benedick should smother his love and waste away .
menas ,  i’m not going back on shore .
i loved ophelia!
three thousand dollars; it’s a good round sum.
tell me ,  you monster ,  where is my son lucentio ?
or i do forget myself !
oh ,  pyramus ,  get up !
at this time of night ?
and what is the subject ?
what, are they children?
come ,  my spade .
i’ll tell him right away ,  my lord .
alack ,  i had forgotten .
yes, indeed.
why does the jew wait?
shake my hand .
from head to toe ?
bottom !
hold on ,  take these keys and go get more spices ,  nurse .
what is it you said ?
he doesn’t do a thing but frown ,  as someone would say ,   “ if you will not have me ,  choose .  ”  he hears happy tales and doesn’t smile: i’m afraid he will probably be the weeping philosopher when he grows old ,  being so full of rude sadness in his youth .
i’d follow you to the gates of hell ,  you sneaky little devil !
we’ll be married tomorrow .
damn those men shouting down there !
no ,  sir ,  not at all .
first thing in the morning, see that you deliver it to my lord and father.
who's that?
i just want everything to be all right between you .
i don’t know if it is true; but i will take it as a certainty just because of mere suspicion in that way.
in your christening, you shall have two godfathers; if i had been the judge, you should have had ten more, to bring you to the gallows, not to the baptismal font.
be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
that’s a good point .
oh ,  is that so ?
o anything of nothing first create!
then i’d be punished for the sins of my mother .
where is that damned wretch ,  tranio ,  who defied me in such a disgraceful manner ?
and like i am for no woman .
farewell .
even that i could put up with .
there are some men that don’t love a dead pig; some that are crazy if they see a cat; and others, when they hear the song of the bagpipe, cannot hold their urine, because sympathy, mistress of passion, persuades passion to the mood of what it likes or hates.
oh ,  to think you’ve been rejected !
if only you were ,  sir .
let go of my hand .
that makes you an even bigger villain . —well ,  throw him out ,  and have my officers seize his house and lands .
fare you well, my dove!
well too .
do that good deed which may make this island your own forever ,  and i ,  your caliban ,  your foot - licker forever .
but regarding what happened between us ,  don’t ask—i can’t tell you .
if she comes in, she'll surely speak to my wife.
it is a villain, sir, that i don’t like to look at.
either here or at the capitol .
these men all have one intention ,  and it’s directed against caesar .
that can’t happen .
young romeo ,  is it ?
what, ho!
o heavens forbid !
lady, shall i lie in your lap?
bring a conclusion ,  rather than need a spirit: appear ,  and quickly .
i am to blame.
are decius brutus and trebonius there ?
no ,  he just gets reality completely wrong .
iago, who started it ?
i hit hard when i’m angry .
i’ve heard all about you women and your cosmetics too .
i mean, in a way.
here comes my little bird .
while i use you to solve this affair ,  i'll go to my queen ,  and beg the indian boy from her; and then i will release her charmed eye so that she will see the monster ,  and all things shall be at peace .
now let it work.—mischief, you’re working!
when a great person departs ,  it causes more pain than when the soul leaves the body .
it shall penetrate your understanding that i am innocent of your father's death, and am most sincerely in grief for it, as day penetrates your eye.
those linen cheeks of your are counselors to fear .
no, if there were two such fellows, we should have none shortly, because one would kill the other.
follow that lord, and see you don’t mock him.
it’s true ,  hero says so .
what do you say ,  james soundpost ?
whose grave is this, sir?
let’s go .
it seems it is as proper for our age to cast beyond ourselves in our opinions as it is common for the younger sort to lack discretion.
i’ll be with you right away.
bring the villain forward .
follow her .
listen ,  listen ,  o ,  listen !
i can’t run away .
my murders will never come back to threaten me until the forest of birnam gets up and moves ,  and i will be king for my entire natural life .
stand next to me for a while ,  because someone is coming hastily .
i will ,  my lord .
it’s true .
love takes the meaning in love's conversation .
have you seen master lorenzo !
well ,  well ,  you have a careful father ,  child; one who ,  to put you past all this grief ,  has sorted out a surprise happy day that you hadn’t expected ,  and i hadn’t looked for .
i will follow you .
what do you want with her ,  sir ?
ah ,  all you up in heaven !
it’s mine and i’m going to get it .
the duke of exeter has held the bridge very gallantly .
yes ,  that’s it !
we didn’t please them on land .
in good time!
but a lot of men have more hair than intelligence .
room ,  oh !
stanley ,  richmond is your wife’s son .
i think the sun where he was born took all such humors out of him.
here let them lie until famine and the plague eat them up.
good countrymen, let me leave alone, and, for my sake, stay here with antony.
though this island seems to be deserted , — ha ,  ha ,  ha !
take a tip from me ,  then .
how poor are they who have no patience!
call claudio and some of my other men .
now ,  my dear lady ,  by most strange accident ,  generous luck ,  has brought my enemies to this shore; and by my knowledge of things to come ,  i find my highest point depends on a very lucky star ,  that ,  if i don’t seek its influence now and overlook it ,  my fortunes will sink forever after .
tybalt ,  you rat - catcher ,  will you walk away ?
he did ,  from first to last .
stay here .
so you took pleasure in bringing me this message ?
what’s going on ?
but as of right this second all these things are yours .
a thousand thousand!
away, get going!
i am glad to see you well.
what a long night this is !
you must take your chance ,  and either don’t attempt to choose at all ,  or swear before you choose that ,  if you choose wrong ,  you will never to speak to me afterward about marriage; so be advised .
give me your hand; take me to my host.
within a month, before the salt of the most wicked tears had left the redness in her bitter eyes, she married.
this is one lucianus ,  nephew to the king .
go ahead; yell with frightening accent and distress as when a fire is seen in big cities at night and by accident.
we cannot get from him where the dead body is hidden ,  my lord .
he seems cheerful .
yet i wish i could .
o, don’t tell me about fear!
well ,         aren’t i right ,  jephthah ,  old man ?
if that can be done ,  then i think we’ve covered everything .
come with me ,  my dear cordelia .
either my eyesight fails, or you look pale.
let me shake your hand .
was he wounded on the front of his body?
if there is anyone in this assembly, any dear friend of caesar's, to him i say that brutus' love to caesar was no less than his love.
let’s look for some desolate shade and there cry our hearts out.
you have my friendship .
yet we must not put the strong law on him .
i saw her ,  but i didn’t notice her .
what ?
i’m sorry to have to say this— help me away from here ,  dear charmian !
excellently ,  excellently .
jailer ,  look to him .
three thousand dollars, for three months, and antonio obligated.
oh sweet bully bottom !
well, god have mercy.
speak the part, i beg you, as i read it to you, lightly on your tongue.
farewell .
will you pluck your sword out of its holder by the handle?
think like this all day ,  and you’ll learn how to curse .
i’d rather adopt a child than have one of my own . —come here ,  moor .
perhaps, to make it the more gracious, i shall sing it at her death.
there’s nothing like good hay ,  really sweet hay .
the mighty gods defend you !
lady, by the blessed moon up there, that tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops, i swear o, don’t swear by the moon, the inconstant moon, that monthly goes through changes in her circled orbit, for fear that your love prove as variable as the moon.
brutus has torn my heart .
but i’ll be quiet; no more .
but it’d take a miracle to make me believe she could do anything that horrible .
i heard a voice cry ,   " sleep no more !
i didn’t survive a shipwreck so i could be scared of your four legs now .
but i have the meantime .
i’m sure it is to knight you ,  captain .
but don’t do that .
all of them ?
she's dead .
do you see the ghastliness of her eye ?
are we all ready?
prepare the body ,  then ,  and follow us .
i’ll give it a try .
go look for him .
who are you here that cry so grievously ?
the ears that should give us hearing can’t hear, to tell him his order is obeyed, that rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead.
let’s go !
you told me you hated him .
goodbye; and, if my fortune is not crossed, i have lost a father, and you a daughter.
dear master ,  listen to me .
well ,  that’s really my job .
whom do you serve under ?
you lie, abhorred tyrant; with my sword i'll prove the lie you speak.
o ,  here i will set up my everlasting rest ,  and shake off the bonds of unlucky stars from my world - wearied body .
tell us your name ,  sir ,  truthfully .
yes, yes, it was bassanio, i think, or so he was called.
what is the tyrant doing?
the eye of man has not heard, the ear of man has not seen; man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, or his heart to report, what my dream was.
i want to avoid that .
yes, my lord.
look at your wife; observe her well with cassio; wear your eye like this ,  not jealous or secure .
go back with her ?
what ,  he never made you laugh ?
it was just moments ago .
very strangely, they say.
all this fighting is because of you .
no ,  who are  long live the king !
come ,  sit ,  sit ,  and sing me a song .
search, seek, and know how this foul murder happened.
romeo ,  are you going to your father’s for lunch ?
reluctantly ,  i agreed–alas !
see to his needs; he brings great news.
how sweet love is when it is yours ,  when only love's shadows are so rich in joy !
where’s antonio ,  then ?
in exchange ,  give up your claim to love helena ,  since i love her and will love her until i die .
my eyes were liars ,  then ,  because i never saw true beauty before tonight .
there’ll be hell to pay for this .
oh ,  heaven ,  how did she get out ?
when we’re by ourselves you can call me  “ tranio .  ”  everywhere else ,  address me as your master lucentio .
if you can remember it, begin at this line, let me see, let me see.
when duncan is asleep ,  which should be soon since he is very tired from his day's hard journey ,  i will go to his two chamberlains with wine and carousing so their memory ,  the guardian of the brain ,  will be a wisp of smoke ,  and the tired brain won’t be able to think clearly .
one of you run to the queen with the news .
where is that poor rash man ?
but why aren’t you in your shop today?
i loved this man so much it makes me weep .
take up those ropes .
but, for all that, to my thinking, he seemed eager to have it.
i never tried to win over a friend or enemy with sweet words .
get him to bed and make sure his wounds are treated .
who is here so vile that he will not love his country?
it isn’t healthy to expose your weak condition to the raw - cold morning like this .
o child!
your master is a wise and valiant roman; i always thought so .
the dirt of a grave must cover your sweet eyes !
it’s time to end it ,  good lady .
alas ,  my friend and my dear countryman roderigo ?
virtue!
you make me so happy .
yes .
lucius !
well; ok; very well.
but give words a chance .
farewell.
what can i say ?
come to my woman's breasts, and make my milk poisonous, you murdering ministers, wherever in your blind shadows you wait on human mischief!
what’s that ?
i frown at him ,  but he still loves me .
maybe you think that i think you’re in love .
no ,  make it two lines more .
o ,  come in ,  liar .
no epilogue, i beg you, because your play needs no excuse.
this is a lowlife who basks in the reflection of the fading glory of the woman he works for . —get out of my sight ,  scoundrel !
unless philosophy can make a juliet, uproot a town, reverse a prince's sentence, it doesn’t help, it doesn’t succeed.
in a minute ,  sir .
i’ll be crippled forever !
all hail ,  macbeth !
why should he call her a whore ?
yes ,  and his relative ,  too .
but that i love you best ,  o most best ,  believe it .
o i wish i had a falconer's voice to lure this hawk back to me again!
goodbye.
who's there?
it seems to me like we’re still sleeping ,  still dreaming .
who heard me do that ?
i’ve heard, and it is nothing, nothing in the world, unless you can laugh at their intentions, extremely stretched and done with cruel pain, to do you service.
your case is better .
it shall be called bottom's dream ,  because it has no bottom; and i will sing it in the latter end of a play ,  before the duke .
i nursed her daughter ,  whom you were just talking to .
stay ,  illusion !
i’ll go get beatrice for you ,  who can walk here by herself—she has legs .
what are you going to do ?
this mean task of mine would be as heavy to me as hateful ,  except that the mistress i serve makes alive what's dead ,  and makes my labors pleasurable: oh !
i'll go around and drive the low people away from the streets; you do this too, where you see many of them gathered together.
what business is it of yours ? —father ,  be quiet .
one of you go find the forest ranger .
therefore be happy ,  cassio; because your lawyer would rather die than lose your case .
or stole it ,  rather .
come on ,  get ready .
madam ,  good night .
good afternoon ,  fair lady .
some dungeon .
every one .
let the devil and his dam haunt you !
he’s pretty awful in the morning when he’s sobering up ,  and even worse in the afternoon when he’s drunk .
let quick sulfurous lightning ,  strong enough to split enormous trees ,  singe the white hair on my head .
why, what should i be afraid of?
is the single man lucky ,  then ?
for my part ,  i’m sorry this battle turned into a drinking match .
what a fine sight !
stones have been known to move, and trees to speak.
what would my powerful master like?
one ,  gentlewoman ,  that god has made for himself to damage .
it seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an ethiopian’s ear; beauty too rich for use ,  for earth too dear !
i hid myself under the dead dreamer’s covering because i was afraid of the storm.
i am more an antique roman than a dane.
truly ,  a great arithmetician ,  one michael cassio ,  a florentine ,  a fellow almost damned in a having a beautiful wife; that has never led a squadron in the field ,  and doesn’t know the division of a battle any more than a spinster does ,  unless the theory books ,  in which the consuls wearing togas can propose a plan as masterly as he can .
on the platform ,  between eleven and twelve ,  i’ll visit you .
on record ,  my gracious lord .
don’t bother us .
the storm separated us .
therefore your earliness assures me that you are aroused by some disturbance in your mind; or if that’s not it ,  then i guess right ,  our romeo has not been in bed tonight .
but now, my lord, what say you to my request?
stay, give me drink.
are you behind some bush ?
look you, here she comes!
i am .
what ,  is brutus sick ,  and will he steal out of his wholesome bed to challenge the evil diseases of the night ,  and tempt the thick and unclean air to add to his sickness ?
i was talking to some venetians down by the shore ,  and the fool showed up .
but soon i’ll see the gods punish you for your lack of respect to your father .
where are you ,  pindarus ?
i swear that claudio will pay dearly for this .
oh ,  dear god ,  don’t let me go mad !
do you think they’re married ?
now i see that all three of them have gotten together to play this cruel trick on me .
one fairer than my love ?
you dance, you walk, and you whisper and nickname animals, and make your looseness your ignorance.
yes, you poor ghost, while memory holds a seat in this confused world.
i sell you poison; you haven’t sold me any.
well then ,  your promise to pay; and ,  let me see .
farewell ,  then ,  signior lucentio .
continue, come to hecuba.
all things that exist are sought for with more spirit than the spirit to enjoy them.
fill your purse with money .
yes, by saint patrick, but there is, horatio, and much offense too.
show .
wait ,  look !
young man ,  your father’s dead .
give me your hand .
where's peasblossom?
heaven keep that monster from othello's mind!
yes ,  sir ,  but not when i’m enraged .
i am the greatest ,  but i was able to do the least .
o romeo ,  romeo !
you !
this is  it is ,  my lord .
come on .
if you are well pleased with this, and hold your fortune for your bliss, turn to where your lady is and claim her with a loving kiss.” a gentle scroll.
romeo killed him; he killed mercutio.
she lies the same way ,  blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering .
get yourself to a convent ,  at once .
who ,  then ,  shall blame him when his own vexed senses begin to recoil and attack ,  when all that is within him revolts against him ?
whether it’s even or odd ,  of all the days in the year ,  on the night of lammas eve ,  she’ll be fourteen .
in such a night jessica stole away from the wealthy jew ,  and ran from venice with a poor love as far as belmont .
what's the matter now ?
ah ,  it’s a sensitive animal ,  with a good conscience .
long live gonzalo !
once there ,  make your thoughts work harder ,  and witness a siege .
oh ,  monstrous !
and i think this is his house .
here comes the noble antony .
but tell me honestly ,  are you sure you’re not insane ?
no ,  my heart is turned to stone; i hit it ,  and it hurts my hand .
but she must be ,  friar .
you give your best praise to the worst women .
two hundred ducats .
come ,  come ,  we’re worrying about the worst - case scenario .
buy food and put on some weight.
they have made meat for the worms out meat of me.
come here ,  proculeius .
away ,  get out of here .
what are you doing ?
he loves caesar best ,  but he also loves antony .
this is getting worse and worse !
the turkish armies are headed for rhodes; so i was asked to report here to the state by signior angelo.
with patience ,  noble lord ,  as prisoners must .
i’m at your service .
nothing, neither way.
i’m smart enough to find the logs myself without bothering peter .
who will go with me?
alright ,  here’s the vial .
remorseless ,  treacherous ,  lecherous ,  kindless villain !
come here ,  man .
i accept with thanks ,  enobarbus .
he rejected my authority as much as yours .
it’s true ,  they’re inconsistent .
but when push comes to shove ,  they droop like those horses that are all show and slow to a crawl .
he is an animal worthy of perseus .
i won’t stand for it .
if you had been afraid to break an oath with him ,  the crown you are currently wearing would have graced the head of my child ,  and both princes would still be alive ,  not preyed on by worms .
claudio !
or i do forget myself!
that’s unbelievably bad .
we’re absolutely not here to delight you .
we'll wait until you’re free .
no ,  i swear it as a man .
besides ,  i have some business to take care of in town .
so much for him !
if not ,  to tell you i will die is true ,  but not for love ,  by god .
now i will have to send my humble proposal of peace to that young man .
no one has heard anything about him.
sir, octavius has already come to rome.
something’s wrong ,  the man sounds panicked .
have you sent someone to bottom's house?
it’s better here than outside .
well, honor is the subject of my story.
i’ll go along.
the lord in heaven bless you ,  noble harry !
they are ,  my lord .
i’m going to find out what you’re thinking .
when ,  at my pleasure ,  i had teased her ,  and she ,  calmly ,  begged my patience ,  i asked her for the indian child ,  which she gave me right away ,  and sent her fairy to carry him to my private place in fairy - land .
your fault our law calls death; but the kind prince, taking your part, has brushed aside the law, and turned that black word “death” to banishment.
please ,  be my god .
every glass of liquor is damned ,  and the devil’s the main ingredient !
i recognize something about that voice .
o gentle son ,  sprinkle cool patience on the heat and flame of your anger !
it’s better to be with the dead ,  whom we have sent to their peace to gain our peace ,  than to lie on a bed ,  torturing of the mind in a restless frenzy .
but let me see ,  by ten we shall each have captured a hundred englishmen .
i hear him .
twelve years ago ,  miranda ,  twelve years ago your father was the duke of milan ,  a powerful prince .
we’re unprepared for this wedding celebration .
caesar's better parts shall be crowned in brutus .
what do you want from me ?
maybe i’ll never go home again ,  iago !
the abuse of greatness is when it disconnects remorse from power ,  and ,  to speak truth about caesar ,  i haven’t known a time when his emotions were swayed more than his reason .
tell them so ,  decius .
servant ,  go hire me twenty great cooks .
malcolm and donalbain ,  the king’s two sons ,  have run away and fled ,  which makes them the prime suspects .
gertrude ,  he says he’s found out the reason for your son’s insanity .
there is only one mind in all these men, and it is bent against caesar.
if you’re so fond of her sin ,  give her permission to offend; because ,  if it doesn’t affect you ,  it affects nobody .
don’t follow; i won’t put up with your speaking; i’ll have my promise to pay.
let that be enough for you .
good night .
come back to my house with me .
stand you aside a while; restrict yourself only in patient way .
come ,  bird ,  come .
i will hear further reason for this.
i trust your virtue as a man .
long live she so!
take your seat .
you poor soul ,  your face has suffered many tears .
i heard myself declared an outlaw and escaped capture by hiding in the trunk of a hollow tree .
as for my wife ,  if only you had such a wife .
an excellent motion .
gallop quickly ,  you horses with fiery flames for feet ,  towards the sun god’s house .
please avoid doing that .
indeed, he’s not fit.
oh ,  i could weep my soul right out of myself !
be honest and helpful ,  and i’ll repay you for your efforts .
are you unwell?
what a fearful night this is !
but there are many herbs that will help him rest and take his mind off his anguish for a while .
i pitied you ,  worked hard to teach you to speak ,  and taught you some new thing practically every hour .
my honor wasn’t given; it was only dominated .
in sadness ,  cousin ,  i do love a woman .
i held the sword, and he ran into it.
my lord ,  the queen wants to speak with you right away .
what was your dream ?
night is over ,  and day is coming .
if we lose this battle ,  then this is the very last time we shall speak together .
it’s a reason for suspicion ,  even though it’s just a dream .
in my mind's eye, horatio.
demand.
that mountain of insanity that wants to marry me ,  i could find it in my heart to stay here and become a witch myself .
but you don’t love me .
if what you say is true ,  you can do the same to me .
well ,  we can put away our pipes and go home .
but never mind .
my son will win .
you’re under arrest ,  sir .
to you i am bound for my life and education; my life and education both teach me how to respect you; you are the lord of duty, i am therefore your daughter.
oh ,  it’s dreadful ,  dreadful ,  iago !
what, is your sword out among these stupid servants?
o heart, don’t give up now, don’t ever let the soul of nero, the crazy emperor, enter this determined heart.
there’s a farmer here who won’t leave without seeing your highness .
england would be lucky to have this virtuous prince as king .
it’ll help us more than hurt us .
so, go; these griefs and losses have so upset me that i shall hardly have a pound of flesh tomorrow give to my bloody creditor.
bleed ,  bleed ,  poor country !
or so much as it needs ,  to revive the flower of royalty and drown the weeds .
i don’t know what you’re talking about .
we had some food and some fresh water that a noble neapolitan, gonzalo,—who, being then appointed supervisor of this plot,— gave us out of his goodness, with rich garments, linens, stuffs, and other necessities, which have since been very useful: so, of his gentleness, knowing how i loved my books, he supplied me, with volumes from my own library that i prize more than my dukedom.
does it go against the main part of poland ,  sir ,  or for some frontier ?
i have been sexton here ,  man and boy ,  thirty years .
very well!
there’s a nicer piece of work right here .
but i’ll marry you under different circumstances—with extravagant festivals ,  public festivities ,  and celebration .
what worse place can i beg in your love ,  and still keep my self - respect — than to be used as you would use your dog ?
portia is dead.
and lovers' absent hours being more tedious than the clock one hundred sixty times ?
my dollars and my daughter!
but let me place this wreath on your head .
fellow, come here; look at caesar.
do you believe his  “ offers ,  ”  as you call them ?
curse the day !
i long to hear the story of your life ,  which must affect the ear strangely .
isn’t there more be done ?
i’m annoyed lately with different passions ,  ideas that only i can know ,  which are perhaps seen in my behavior; but don’t let my good friends be upset— cassius ,  you’re one of them— or try to understand my indifference any further than that poor brutus ,  at war with himself ,  forgets to show friendship to other men .
then lead the way ,  father .
playing the lord like that, not only with what my money yielded, but also whatever else my power might get him,—like one who having lied so often by telling it enough, made his memory such a sinner that it gave truth to his own lie,—he believed he was indeed the duke, making substitution for me, and wearing the outward show of royalty, with all rights and privileges.—here his ambition growing— are you listening?
do you think i’d break my oath ?
tell her that the entire east shall call her queen .  ”  then he nodded and solemnly mounted an armored warhorse ,  which neighed so loudly it effectively silenced anything i might have said in reply .
what about the boy malcolm?
please, let's have no more fooling about it, but give me your blessing; i am launcelot, your boy that was, your son that is, your child that shall be.
will she still love him for chattering ?
fair love ,  you are exhausted with wandering in the forest .
ay ,  darn it ,  you must because you must understand he only goes to see a noise that he heard ,  and will come again .
has his largest ship lost ,  coming from tripolis .
eyes ,  look your last !
i must find a reader .
i have done your bidding and fulfilled my promise .
watch out ,  ophelia .
that’s how claudio will respond .
oh ,  kiss me through the hole of this vile wall .
come on ,  sir ,  let’s go .
you truly did .
affection !  ”  that’s nothing !
signor martino and his wife and daughters ,  count anselme and his beautiful sisters ,  vitruvio’s widow ,  signor placentio and his lovely nieces ,  mercutio and his brother valentine ,  my uncle capulet and his wife and daughters ,  my fair niece rosaline and livia ,
i’ve told you everything i know .
what then ?
no ,  please ,  read it like a sane person .
come ,  vaughan .
alas, poor country, almost afraid to know itself!
i wish you had told me you had a different father .
o cassio, cassio, cassio!
be gone!
i don’t know that ,  once he knows what i know .
everyone keeps yelling ,   “ here they come !  ”  our castle is strong enough to laugh off their seige .
a fourth!
have a good - night .
if i had as many sons as i have hairs on my head ,  i couldn’t hope that any of them would die more honorably than he did .
whether you bite to kill ,  mastiff ,  greyhound ,  or ugly mutt ,
who offered him the crown ?
now ,  as you’re a roman ,  tell me the truth .
what's the disease he means ?
what if she won’t kiss me ?
what are they doing in the north when they should be in the west serving their king ?
i did enact julius caesar ,  i was killed in the capitol ,  brutus killed me .
but i mean to make my pain worth suffering ,  to have him look at me there and back again .
they were traitors .
he shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear his hopes above wisdom, grace, and fear.
like hell !
heaven me send such usage, not to pick bad from bad, but to change my ways by bad!
give me a cup of wine .
they stumble that run fast.
one servant cried ,   “ god bless us !  ”  and the other replied ,   “ amen ,  ”  as if they had seen my bloody hands .
richard ,  the duke of gloucester ,  hates you .
i say ,  amen .
if i could win a lady by playing leapfrog or vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back—though you may accuse me of boasting—i could easily get myself a wife .
yes ,  sir ,  mend you .
hold your desperate hand .
i’m very glad .
well ,  then ,  you don’t have the affection that would teach you that you and i are one .
to supper; to our house.
no ,  my good lord .
i never saw a better - designed gown ,  more elegant and pleasing and well made .
holy franciscan friar!
they eat too much and get indigestion and nausea .
if he hadn’t been drunk ,  he would’ve really roughed you up .
here's not a nobler man in rome than antony.
then ,  at my farm i have a hundred milk cows ,  a hundred and twenty fat oxen in my stables ,  and all the equipment necessary to maintain them .
i think it would be very hard to arrange for them to have sex while you watched .
it’s all over now ,  and so am i .   let’s forgive each other .
and i know that by now they’re waiting for me on the porch outside pompey’s theater .
let me shake your hand .
come now!
keep that promise, love.
i hope to make the sender blush for it .
yes ,  and it seemed twice as long to me ,  having been kept from your bed that whole time .
drunk !
so every holy spirit help me, as i have spoken all my best for you, and stood shocked at his displeasure over my free speech!
before i learn how to love ,  i’ll learn how to follow orders .
do you maintain the same story ?
and now i’m going to leave your despised company .
put your hand on your heart and listen to my advice .
if not ,  then i’m a liar .
my name is roderigo.
i’m not sure ,  my lord .
you are my other self ,  my oracle ,  my prophet ,  my dear brother !
this will only lead to another argument if i stay longer .
there’s good reason to escape when there’s no mercy to be found anymore .
yes ,  they do ,  my lord ,  hercules and his load too .
o, help!
let me enjoy my privacy .
be brave like the lion and proud .
our intention was to be gone from athens ,  and to get to a place where we might be together without the punishment of the athenian law .
therefore, stop grieving.
poor tom has been scared out of his mind .
may we do that ?
lieutenant,--sir,--montano,--gentlemen,-- have you forgot all place of sense and duty?
yes, and briefly.
you heard her say it herself it wasn’t i .
then she ran away to grieve alone .
for who is living, if those two are gone?
people don’t cry when they’re mocking someone .
miserable england ,  i foresee for you the most frightening time you have ever experienced . —come ,  lead me to the block .
as i was standing my watch upon the hill, i looked toward birnam, and in a minute, i thought, the wood began to move.
you would do very well ,  good reynaldo ,  before you visit him ,  to ask someone about his behavior .
no more ,  please; i am half afraid you will now say he is related to you ,  you spend such so many words in praising him .
and she's fair who i love .
i’ll do it ,  but i don’t like it .
this love that you have shown adds more grief to mine which is already too much .
i think i can find him, if you’d please get a good guard, and go along with me.
my husband is alive on earth ,  my vows of marriage are in heaven .
how is your majesty doing ?
please just listen .
unless you’re talking about his love for this kind of foolishness—which ,  judging from his appearance ,  he has—he is no fool for love ,  as you pretend .
it seems not .
no one may be bolder than my lord hastings .
no, good goose, don’t bite.
excuse me ,  sir . — tom’s chilly .
was it so late ,  friend ,  before you went to bed ,  that you overslept ?
i loved one speech in particular .
master ,  master ,  i’ve been on the lookout so long ,  i’m ready to fall down dead—but i’ve got one ,  finally !
you must tell his name and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck ,  and he himself must speak through the mask saying this ,  or something to the same defect , — " ladies ,  "  or  " fair ladies ,  i would wish you ,  or ,  i would request you ,  or ,  i would entreat you ,  not to be afraid ,  not to tremble .
did michael cassio ,  when you courted my lady ,  know about your love ?
look here upon this picture and on this one ,  the representation of two brothers .
thieves!
you would have made me treat them like a tyrant . —i’m done ,  my lord .
please tell me what you’re thinking—even your worst suspicions .
hello ,  sir .
a great welcome home!
can your man keep a secret ?
sir ,  is everyone in your family at home ?
he looks like he just recently stopped breastfeeding .
before me !
oh ,  really ?
who’s coming ?
god ,  i’m crazy about her .
i don’t have evil in me sometimes to do me service .
my lord ?
well ,  you’re a liar ,  then .
but i yield to die .
and yet, to me, what is this highly refined speck of dust?
the time and my intents are savage and wild ,  so much ore fierce and more determined than hungry tigers or the roaring sea .
the woman i love is beautiful .
go get ready .
farewell ,  lady .
sweet mistress—i don’t know what other name to give you ,  or how you’ve figured out mine—you seem as
i will pour some in your other mouth .
shylock, although i don’t lend or borrow by taking or by giving excess money, still, to supply the urgent wants of my friend, i'll break a custom.
it is the wittiest partition that ever i heard speak ,  my lord .
you’ll fall backward when you grow up ,  won’t you ,  jule ?  ”  and she stopped crying and said ,   “ yes .  ”  now you stop too ,  nurse ,  please .
oh ,  stop ,  fool .
there is a tide in the affairs of men which ,  if taken at high tide ,  leads to good luck; not taken ,  all the voyages of their lives are bound to end in shallows and in miseries .
what's in a name?
if it will please caesar to be so good to caesar as to hear what i have to say, i shall beg him to take care of himself.
patience perhaps meeting with a willful temper makes my flesh tremble in their differences.
or else their guardians and advisors said no— what hell ,  to have your love life determined by someone else !
let it all go.
don’t ,  for one denial ,  lose the action that you swore to do .
and i’m going to sleep .
what, ho!
all cooped up together ,  just as you ordered ,  all imprisoned in the grove of linden trees that protects your room from bad weather .
a pound of human flesh taken isn’t even as valuable as a pound of mutton or beef .
this will keep them from being frightened.
what ,  now ?
as you are to yourself .
leave wringing of your hands .
i beg you ,  tonight lay my wedding sheets on my bed ,  remember ?
what ladybird!
please allow her to do this .
what ?
by mary ,  sir ,  here's my intention: ,  and i believe it is a trick of protection .
well ,  good for him !
monster sweetie ,  be a good monster and just speak once .
peace to you ,  my lord of burgundy .
i’m wounded .
my dream told me that dreamers often lie .
o, rejoice beyond a common joy, and set it down with gold on lasting pillars.
if i had only died an hour before this event i could say i had lived a blessed life .
until birnam wood gets up and moves to dunsinane ,  i won’t be affected by fear .
so give me your answer ,  and we’ll shake on it .
caesar wouldn’t take the crown; it’s certain he wasn’t ambitious for that reason .
o ,  i was damned beneath all the depths of hell ,  and i proceeded on just grounds to this extremity .
his coffers are too poor to atone for our losses ,  his entire kingdom too small to account for the amount of blood we’ve shed ,  and the sight of him kneeling at our feet an empty satisfaction compared to the indignity we have put up with .
to the health of our general !
this guy doesn’t pay much attention to punctuation .
don’t worry about me . —your sister and the duke are here .
trade me for a goat when i shall turn the business of my soul to such puffed up and blown suspicions, matching your suggestion.
antonio and shylock ,  both of you come forward .
wait ,  good beatrice .
yes ,  absolutely ,  no question or ambiguity about it .
what’s your name ?
is it young romeo ?
oh ,  this is cause for an extraordinary joy that should be engraved in gold on pillars to last forever .
alas ,  he's crazy !
if things are the way people tell me they are—and they’re only telling me this to warn me—then i have to say ,  you’re not conducting yourself with the self - restraint a daughter of mine should show .
that’s right .
a nice stool .
toward chertsey ,  noble lord ?
the princes are under some strange misunderstanding .
where shall we meet in the morning?
i was bound to him an hour ago ,  sir ,  but thankfully he chewed through our ropes .
he’s furious because you insulted him ,  and he has a right to satisfaction .
will you do this ?
if you make us musicians ,  look to hear nothing but noise .
i wish i were ,  so i could deprive you of both day and life .
how is hamlet?
now that he’s old ,  we can expect to have to deal not only with his old character flaws ,  which have turned into deep - rooted habits ,  but also with the uncontrollable crabbiness that comes with old age .
go, some of you, whoever you find, arrest.
if you were men ,  as you are men on the outside ,  you wouldn’t use a gentle lady like this: to vow ,  and swear ,  and super - praise my parts ,  when i am sure you hate me with your hearts .
who can control his fate ?
if you close the doors on a woman’s wit ,  it’ll fly out the window .
o, damn you, slanderer!
i will see them .
my dear son is too familiar with such sour company.
if you’re not having sex with desdemona tomorrow night ,  then i suggest you find some way to stab me in the back and kill me .
and i came with him .
i remember he’s already occupied .
if i remember correctly ,  i can’t raise the entire three thousand ducats immediately .
he’d begged me to steal it many times .
what noise startles in our ears ?
the forests ,  the skies ,  the mountains ,  everything around us seemed to echo the barks of the hounds .
you that choose not by looks ,  gamble as fair and choose as true !
and, until she comes, as truly as i confess the vices of my blood to heaven, so i'll present truthfully, to your hearing, how i thrived in this beautiful lady's love, and she in mine.
except that there's more work .
go to the church: take the priest ,  the clerk ,  and some reasonably honest witnesses .
if he did that ,  it would be a charitable deed to hang him .
the drop of affliction often causes doubt about all the virtues they have to men’s own disgrace .
a friend .
are you always so funny ?
have a good night !
it would be as natural to me as it is to you: and i should do it much more easily, because my good will is in it, and yours is against it.
i saw mark antony offer him a crown—though it wasn’t a real crown ,  just a small circlet—and ,  as i told you ,  he refused it once—though in my opinion he would’ve liked to have it .
or is it some trick and no such thing?
you will not move one foot to fight!
if she should break the moment now!
caesar ,  i never believed in omens ,  but now they frighten me .
farewell!
this bigmouth jerk here—( he’ll still die by hanging ,  not drowning ,  even if every drop of water in the sea tries to swallow him .
judge me, you gods!
i didn’t call you .
no ,  i won’t .
let me choose; because as i am ,  i live in torture .
a friend ?
why ,  what’s the matter ?
the curfew - bell rang .
it may be ,  it certainly may be .
if you take it too seriously ,  it’ll have bad effects that i didn’t want it to have .
ok ,  guys ,  spread out .
do i look like a club or a beating stick ,  a staff or a prop ?
his beard was grizzly ,  no ?
but let him start off easy by killing one of us .
what foul play did we have that we left there?
i will put my arms around you just as the woodbine twists around the sweet honeysuckle , — like the female ivy winds around the branches of the elm .
or did i dream it ?
go, get you to johann, bring me a mug of whiskey.
if i once get angry, and only lift this arm, the best of you shall sink in my scolding.
what!
madam, you have made me speechless, only my blood in my veins speaks to you, and i am so confused just as there appears buzzing among a happy crowd after a well given speech by a beloved prince; where every piece, blended together, turns to something wild, expressed and not expressed, except for joy.
i have watched two nights with you ,  but i can perceive no truth in your report .
is it true ,  is it true ?
you will seem even brighter and more virtuous when she’s out of the picture .
have you come to make confession to this father ?
why then, he was god's soldier!
therefore stay a bit longer ,  you don’t need to go .
well ,  god have mercy .
bear this body away ,  and wait for our instructions .
for my part ,  my lord ,  i didn’t intend to see you here; but ,  meeting with salanio by the way ,  he begged me ,  past all saying no ,  to come along with him .
come with me .
damn him !
now they’ve turned around and are clearly heading for cyprus .
don’t talk to me ,  because i won’t answer you .
what are you thinking?
goodbye ,  goodbye !
goodbye !
so he does indeed .
but what about cicero ?
and they’ve been plotting things together .
approach, my ariel; come!
i heard someone say that’s what it means .
that’s like hot ice and wondrous strange snow .
it’s not daylight .
it is an unweeded garden that is going to seed, only things that are decaying and disgusting grow there.
now let me tell you ,  casca ,  i have already convinced some of the noblest romans to join me in an honorable but dangerous mission .
ah ,  what an unlucky hour is guilty of this lamentable event !
my back on the other side, o, my back, my back!
he’s a good - looking young man ,  and there are a lot of people with him .
fear not ,  until birnam wood do come to dunsinane; "  and now a wood comes toward dunsinane .
yes ,  demetrius has my approval; and everything i own i will leave to him; and she is mine; and all my rights concerning her ,  i leave to demetrius .
i’ll try to calm him down for you if i can .
i’ll think of something .
it is written that the shoemaker should meddle with his measuring tape and the tailor with his shoe form, the fisher with his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but i am sent to find the people whose names are written here, and i cannot read what names the writing person has written here.
we owe you love and service forever .
what would my powerful master like ?
my only love sprung from my only hate!
there are things in this comedy of pyramus and thisbe that will never work .
we’ve got to act fast ,  my lord of the fairies .
i think i see you ,  now you are below me ,  looking like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb .
i won’t betray them .
i wouldn’t even pee without dancing a waltz .
i’ll hide here silently .
shall caesar send a lie?
do it .
no ,  my lord ,  that was me .
caesar resents me ,  but he loves brutus .
it is not needed yet.
how long will a man lie in the earth before he rots?
sir ,  my brother is very fond of you .
among the ten thousand the french have lost only sixteen hundred are mercenaries .
portia ,  are you gone ?
and you would have me do that?
who wishes that ?
we don’t have any music that can’t be heard .
why ,  for that too .
stay in your cabins .
then octavia’s complaints will rouse caesar ,  and as i said before ,  the thing that brought them together will part them .
this is decius brutus .
are you on duty again tonight ?
so i expect his.
thanks ,  my dear lord .
was that my father who left here in such a hurry ?
he is a noble prisoner !
mean you his majesty ?
please let me prove you’re a fool .
after that ,  nothing can hurt him further—not weapons ,  poison ,  rebellion ,  invasion ,  or anything else .
i’ll read you a sermon .
o love !
a touch ,  a touch ,  i do confess .
she’s mine ,  and i’m giving her to demetrius .
god pardon him!
did he cry ?
do not muse at me ,  my most worthy friends .
o ,  falsely ,  falsely murdered !
this is the abscess of much wealth and peace, that breaks inward, and shows no damage until the man dies.
alas, poor rogue!
swagger?
give me your arm .
swell, bosom, with your fury, because it is from lavender’s tongues!
while he and i are at one ,  my loyal servant catesby will be at the other ,  so nothing will happen that we won’t find out about .
i must recount what you have been once a month, which you forget.
both myself and many other friend but he ,  advisor to his own affections ,  keeps it all to himself – i will not say how true but to himself ,  so secret and so close ,  so far from sounding and discovery ,  just like a flower bud bit by a worm jealous of its beauty before her can bloom and spread his sweet leaves to the air ,  or dedicate his beauty to the sun .
come on ,  i won’t stand for it anymore .
what do you want to tell me ?
if he said that ,  then i hope his malicious soul rots in hell forever .
how every event works against me to spur my dull revenge!
out, damned spot!
when did she send you ?
those who can discipline themselves to undertake such a heavenly path for piety are blessed three times; but those who are in a convent to avoid marriage grow ,  live ,  and die ,  in single blessedness .
i am, my lord, as well born as he is, as rich; my love is better than his; my fortunes, no matter which way you look at it, are as good as demetrius'; and, furthermore, which is more important than all these qualities, hermia loves me too!
we shall, my lord.
don’t take too long ,  unless you want our king to come after me to ask what’s holding things up ,  because he’s already landed here .
in my imagination ,  horatio .
i’ll get back at him another way .
how often tonight have my old feet stumbled over graves !
how far is it to the town of forres ?
what about the naming of this gentleman ?
come on then .
claudio ,  take my daughter ,  and ,  with her ,  take my fortunes .
hey ,  let’s have some music here !
here, lord bassanio, swear to keep this ring.
hurry !
honestly, nerissa, my little body is weary of this great world.
you’re overstepping your bounds now .
what is the cause, laertes, that your rebellion looks so huge?
when was there ever an age ,  since the beginning of time ,  that didn’t feature more than one famous man ?
did you give the finger to us, sir?
for shame ,  for shame !
where’s the necklace ?
i can’t speak any more .
no ,  i’ve got another engagement .
good morning ,  catesby .
i’m leaving now .
burn !
if i were in the habit of fighting the way you are ,  my life insurance rates would be sky high .
come ,  tears ,  confound; out ,  sword ,  and wound the pap (heart) of pyramus .
portia, forgive me this forced wrong; and in the hearing of these many friends, i swear to you, even by your own beautiful eyes, that i see myself in,— listen, only that!
we should all kneel before her ,  men of cyprus !
we will get ourselves ready.
with all my heart ,  phoebe .
you too ,  brutus ? — then fall ,  caesar !
you should say ,   “ i sort of know him ,  but not well .
you don’t know me, but i know you though in your state of honor.
the prayers of saints and those that richard wronged support us like high - walled fortresses .
the devil’s advice is nicer .
i beg you ,  sir ,  go outside ,  and give us truth about who it is that has arrived .
i myself am playing the man in the moon— well then ,  that’s the biggest mistake of all .
and this report has so exasperated the king that he prepares for some attempt of war .
we’re ready for both ,  my lord .
let this act be the stone that sharpens your sword.
arise, fair sun, and kill the jealous moon, who is already sick and pale with grief, that you, her maid, are far more beautiful than she is.
come ,  death ,  and welcome !
pray heavens he is ,  because i have served him ,  and the man commands like a full soldier .
how are my old friends from this island doing ? —honey ,  they’ll love you here in cyprus .
you’re an insolent little boy .
i will seize him.
and then for her to win the moor ,  if it meant renouncing his own baptism ,  all seals and symbols of forgiveness ,  his soul is so chained to her love that she may make ,  unmake ,  do whatever she wants ,  even as her wishes shall play the god with his weak ability to think .
what does romeo say ?
the other one didn’t.
go in, nerissa: give orders to my servants that they take no notice at all of our being absent from here; nor you, lorenzo; jessica, nor you.
now get out of here .
long live theseus ,  our famous and respected duke !
we are blessed that rome is rid of him .
that’s the way it should be—only antony should conquer antony .
o cursed ,  cursed slave !
the time between is mine ,  and a man's life is longer than it takes to say  “ one .
madam ,  i shall obey you in all fair commands .
what should i say ?
what is there left to do ?
oh bottom, you are changed!
hell and damnation !
why ,  madam ,  have i offered you my love only to be flouted in front of the king ?
wait ,  who’s coming here ?
whenever they meet ,  there’s a little battle .
you can’t party your way into dukedoms there .
if you make the accusation convincingly ,  then my cunning won’t fail me .
here is the money.
he speaks well .
call peter ,  he’ll show you where they are .
indeed!
two or three of us have seen strange things .
i’ll try to make myself worth your knowledge .
the most careful maid is wasteful enough if she unmasks her beauty to the moon .
we need more help !
god knows when we shall meet again.
goodbye then ,  hero .
that’s very soon .
rebellious hell ,  if you can rebel in an old lady’s bones ,  then let virtue be like wax to burning youth ,  and melt in her own fire .
who will thank us ?
how are you, ophelia!
just close up these holes with your finger and thumb ,  put it in your mouth and blow ,  and it will yield the most eloquent music .
if the news is good ,  you’re ruining the sweet news by playing a trick with a sour face like that .
throw her out, the good for nothing!
since i was three years old ,  i’ve been in contact with a powerful but virtuous magician—no black magic here .
to supper; to our house .
why do you care that he loves hermia ?
kings and noblemen served him .
and i love hastings with all my heart .
when duke frederick heard that great ,  worthy men were coming to this forest every day ,  he raised a large army to invade this land and fight his brother .
i’ve heard my father mention him .
look ,  here comes a walking fire .
you must tell his name and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck, and he himself must speak through the mask saying this, or something to the same defect,—"ladies," or "fair ladies, i would wish you, or, i would request you, or, i would entreat you, not to be afraid, not to tremble.
i’d second your wish if it automatically meant that lucentio could have baptista’s youngest daughter .
the more i try to hide what i’m feeling ,  the bigger it gets .
i’m reluctant to tell you what i wish you knew .
show me ,  show me .
yes.
since the vile lion vile has here taken my dear; which is—no ,  no—which was the fairest dame that lived ,  that loved ,  that liked ,  that looked with cheer .
because ,  let the whole world know ,  you are the next in line to our throne ,  and ,  i give you my love ,  with no less nobility than the love which the dearest father bears his son .
what ring did you give ,  my lord ?
then he’s no good .
that duke who lives nearby is courting her .
believe me, i would rather have lost my purse full of money, and, except that my noble moor is true of mind and made of no such lowness as jealous creatures are, it would be enough to put him to ill thinking.
he is cooling off his horses .
show me the way .
but my uncle-father and aunt- mother are deceived.
look ,  my lord ,  it comes !
goodbye to you all .
i go, i go; look how i go,— swifter than an arrow from the barbarian’s bow.
if you have a gut feeling ,  obey it .
i have come to announce that juno has asked you ,  ceres ,  goddess of the fields and the earth ,  to leave your rich farms of wheat ,  rye ,  barley ,  oats ,  and peas ,  the hills where the
take three times your money .
leah gave it to me before we were married .
fly further off ,  my lord ,  fly further off; mark antony is in your tents ,  my lord .
how am i ,  then ,  a villain to advise cassio to this parallel course ,  directly to his good ?
why, goodbye, portia.
did you pay attention to his words?
prince ,  as you are true ,  for blood of ours shed blood of montague .
you’re busted .
to divert your attention, why do you go about trying to figure me out, as if you’re to pick a fight?
it’s not safe to be straightforward and honest .
you’ve got some petition to caesar, haven’t you?
thanks ,  guildenstern and gentle rosencrantz .
i’m coming ,  my lord .
now ,  if this promise was in bianca's power ,  how quickly you would you succeed !
i beg you ,  stay seated .
what’s up ,  catesby ,  what does your master say ?
o, she was evil!
my lord, i did intend to ask.
go then ,  goodbye .
my lord, i'll tell my lady you will come.
answer; answer .
aside] it goes just the way, i see, that my soul wants it.—spirit, fine spirit!
what’s the matter ,  lady ?
is this well done ?
you’ll become a wood salesman and buy nothing but clubs from me .
it’s true ,  my lord .
thieves !
o, damn on them!
punishment!
what ,  must our voices be ignored ?
it’s pretty well done ,  isn’t it ?
help me out of here .
neither, my lord.
ah me, what act roars so loudly and thunders in the wind?
kind gentlemen ,  let's go see poor cassio bandaged .
macbeth has heard this news and he is so angry that he’s preparing for war .
i don’t trust you .
i’ll call on you before you go to bed, and tell you what i know.
because i’m afraid of that, i still will stay with you, and never leave this palace of dim night again.
if they find that we killed your father or had him killed, we will surrender our kingdom, our crown, our life, and all that we call ours, to you in satisfaction, but if not, you must be patient with us, and we shall work together with your soul to give it just compensation.
what’s the news?
taurus !
there are tears for his love ,  joy for his fortune ,  honor for his bravery ,  and death for his ambition .
he’s insane .
sadly ,  it’s the king that’s missing .
go away now and in the morning meet me in the pit by the river in hell .
there's millions now alive that nightly lie in those adulterous beds which they dare to swear is the first time .
i mean i will live on whatever i get ,  like birds do .
please hire cassio again .
will you let him ,  my lord ?
before you make  my lord ,  you could really help me out now .
i’ll wait for you in your cave ,  where you can tell me what you need from me .
in such a time as this, it isn’t fair that every silly offense should uphold his criticism.
listen ,  how they knock !
in faith, we may put up our pipes and go home.
let us rather stop the mortal sword quickly ,  and ,  like good men ,  climb over our down - fallen country .
i’d bet fourteen of my own teeth—but ,  i’m sorry to say ,  i only have four teeth—she’s not fourteen .
yes ,  if i’m still alive ,  and you’re still sane ,  and your dinner is worth eating .
what you were afraid of has happened .
i’ve never seen a creature with a human shape who was so eager to destroy a man .
go ahead ,  do your worst .
shut up ,  fool !
i know he will be happy at our success: we are the jasons ,  we have won the fleece .
it’s caesar that you mean, isn’t it, cassius?
if my lips had the power to give life ,  i would wear them out like this .
come here ,  monster ,  put some glue on your fingers ,  and carry away the rest of these clothes for us .
you shouldn’t have to see the punishment we inflict on your father .
i wish he were fatter!
no ,  please ,  i beg your majesty .
they who have done this deed are honorable .
i’m that great gust to her fire .
one ,  so they can save the money they spent on hairstyling ,  and two ,  so that when their hair falls out it doesn’t land in their dinner .
i can’t even be sure these are my hands .
didn’t this frighten our captains ,  macbeth and banquo ?
everything that made me worry about my ships would make me sad .
oh ,  no .
what news ?
what ,  a play !
and then throw the seeds in the sea ,  to make more islands grow .
you’d better tell antonio what you heard; still, don’t tell him without warning because it may be too painful.
it fills me with fear and wonder .
i beg you, take your fingers from my throat, for, although i am not impatient and rash, i still have something dangerous in me, which you should fear.
a lazy disposition, my good lord.
i am a spirit of no simple power— the summer still waits for me and i love you.
is it possible to be wise ,  bewildered ,  calm ,  furious ,  loyal ,  and neutral all at once ?
i wish they were hypodermics for your sake !
no.
well she was ,  good curtis ,  before this frost .
now he’ll work himself up to a fury .
the poor thing ,  he is so shaken with a fever that it’s terrible to see .
take this from this, if this isn’t the case now.
he keeps them ,  like an ape ,  in the corner of his jaw ,  first to be tasted ,  and then at last swallowed .
out of love ?
let’s get started right away .
no ,  i swear on my honor ,  i haven’t ,  madam .
has he asked for me ?
he took me by the wrist, and held me hard, then he went to the length of his whole arm, and with his other hand like this over his brow, he started such study of my face as though he wanted to draw it.
of all the days in the year, i became a grave-maker the day that our last king hamlet overcame fortinbras.
away !
so you think you won’t marry again ,  but you’ll change your mind when your first lord is dead .
you lie: you can’t .
even if i have to die—as they threaten—i have to help the king .
let me destroy myself ,  let heaven and destiny deprive me of happy hours ,  let day remain dark and night sleepless ,  and let me have nothing but terrible luck if i do not love with a pure heart ,  clean devotion ,  and holy thoughts your beautiful royal daughter .
why ,  look here ,  at what an unworthy a thing you make of me !
your love says, like an honest gentleman, ”where is your mother?” o god's lady dear!
now i fear this will make it start all over again, therefore let's follow him.
i’m afraid our plan has been discovered .
this is the devil flibbertigibbet .
but that i love you best, o most best, believe it.
what name ,  madam ?
look ,  don pedro has come back for you .
and still do ,  i swear by my hands .
what, in our house?
where’s the master ,  boatswain ?
not if the minor ones come up first .
watch his reaction .
so take her ,  shepherd ,  and god bless you .
it was you we laughed at.
i dare not say he lies anywhere.
her worth is carried on the wind and it blows throughout the world ,  carrying the name of rosalind .
if he hears you ,  you’ll make him angry .
a cup closed in my true love's hand?
why ,  our troops amount to three times that .
his eyes used to glow with pride when he reviewed his troops .
i am almost afraid to stand alone here in the churchyard ,  but i will stay .
how amazing !
until then, god be with you!
do, my good friend.
the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers—where the swords hang .
the duke went with him to search bassanio’s ship .
say, what entertainment do you have for this evening?
music !
i don’t like the way he’s acting ,  and it’s not safe for me to let his insanity get out of control .
i’ll give you cramps for saying that—horrible pains in your sides that will keep you from breathing .
i’ll give you the title to that ship and its treasure .
but you had bad blood in you ,  no matter how much you learned ,  and good people couldn’t stand to be near you .
where?
oh ,  antony !
ask for me tomorrow, and you shall find me a grave man.
well ,  praise the lord you’re ugly .
don’t tell me, friar, that you heard about this, unless you can tell me how i can prevent it.
where is your husband ?
no ,  i know not .
run away ,  i beg you !
my father - in - law lives closer to the marketplace .
but oh ,  what a deceiver he turned out to be !
as you shall prove us to be ,  praise us .
i hope you haven’t lost your mind .
o my son, what theme?
i have no doubt he got ashore alive .
i’ll hear brutus speak .
it’s not fair to punish me for something you make me do .
he looks gentler than he did .
if you can think of a more awful title ,  i’ll call her that .
will you show the whole wealth of your wit al at once ?
a particle of dust will turn the balance, which pyramus, which thisbe, is the better.
but who’s with him ?
no .
o honey nurse ,  what news ?
so is the most difficult loss .
my lord, you acted once when you were in the university, you say?
to have a foolish wife.
let’s start .
come on .
when you record these sad events in your letters ,  please describe me exactly as i am .
well then ,  improve your situation with a show of courage .
oh ,  i hate looking at his face now !
why are you still crying ?
i’ll hide here silently.
i like to pretend you are ,  because then it’s almost like actually talking to her .
signior lodovico?
look to the lady.
should we all give up and drown ?
cassio's a proper man.
should we go find benedick and tell him about beatrice’s love ?
what were these ?
only, peace!
o ,  is that all ?
in fact ,  i’d do even more to him than what you’ve heard him promise to do .
it is time i should tell you more .
lucentio ,  sir .
don’t you come to scold your tardy son, that, forgetting time and passion, lets the important acting of your dread command go by?
now i will question cassio about bianca, a housewife that, by selling her desires, buys herself bread and clothes.
by mary, a perfumed one.
it’s not true .
your wives, your daughters, your matrons, and your maids, could not fill up the cistern of my lust, and my desire would overcome all international factions that did oppose my will.
oh ,  no ,  he’s surely not in hell .
alas the heavy day !
let them be well used ,  for they are the short stories and brief history of the time .
i’m not well .
i do know, when passion burns the blood, how the wasteful soul gives the tongue vows to speak.
pray ,  let me stay .
judge me ,  you gods !
good morning ,  noble sir !
what !
what’s the matter ?
are they getting rusty ?
my god ,  who knows ?
it’s not good for your health ,  either .
it isn’t proper for you to know how much caesar loved you .
this is the house where lorenzo wanted us to wait.
i wouldn’t marry her ,  even if she were as blessed as paradise .
he’ll be a good governor .
go ,  but do it .
i’ll wear a big sword in my belt ,  carry a boar - spear in my hand ,  and hide all my womanish fear in my heart .
fast asleep ,  i guarantee her .
such men as he is are never at ease in their hearts when they see a man greater than themselves; and for that reason they are very dangerous .
therefore ,  get to your horse ,  and let us not be too dainty in saying goodbye ,  but only sneak away .
oh ,  i see ,  you will only part with lightweight presents .
shall i not have just my principal ?
paying debts is for peasants .
ratcliffe ,  my lord ,  it’s me .
these griefs ,  these woes ,  these sorrows make me old .
heaven knows what she has known .
i wish they were hypodermics for your sake!
i never gave him reason to be jealous .
not i, my lord.
you’re not asleep yet ,  sir ?
avoid; no more !
yes ,  if messala recommends me to you .
back then ,  i called you  “ a poor ,  imitation queen ,  ”  a badly reproduced copy of what i was ,  a pretty prologue for the tragedy that was about to follow ,  a woman who was lifted high only to be hurled down to hell ,  a mother only teased with two beautiful children ,  who would soon die .
that deceived man lives in bliss who, certain of his fate, doesn’t love who wronged him; but o, what damned stories he tells about who loves, but doubts, suspects, but strongly loves!
oh romeo ,  romeo ,  brave mercutio is dead !
do you want to hear it again ?
halt !
what’s the matter ?
but why do you keep me here so long ?
what are we going to give as our excuse ?
the fight is between our masters ,  and we men who work for them .
i am very uncomfortable, unfit for my own intentions.
you coward ,  are you bragging to the stars ,  telling the bushes that you look for wars ,  but will not fight one ?
with cassio, mistress.
you do the same .
can’t you just hate me ,  as i know you do ,  instead of joining together to mock me too ?
and now you cry ,  even though she has risen up above the clouds ,  as high as heaven itself ?
i’m amazed how similar you and your daughters are .
take pity on poor tom ,  who is persecuted by the devil .
yes ,  it’s william ,  sir .
i’m really worried about that .
my lord ,  i will give them all they deserve .
i know the king and queen sent for you .
yes.
i won’t be taken for a fool who sighs and gives in to christian meddlers .
as crazy as the sea and wind, when both fight over which is mightier.
this is not the way to win your daughter .
he won’t listen to anyone’s advice .
shall i hear more, or shall i speak at this?
i had a dream last night .
good grief ,  do you think that just because i’m dressed like a man ,  i have a man’s patience ?
why ?
come to these yellow sands, and then take my hands: bow courteously when you have and kiss me,— the wild waves are silent,— dance gracefully here and there; and, sweet spirits, listen to the chorus.
i’ll fish for you and get you plenty of firewood .
this is the abscess of much wealth and peace ,  that breaks inward ,  and shows no damage until the man dies .
we are very sorry for it .
give me that man that is not passion's slave ,  and i will wear him in my heart's core ,  yes ,  in my heart of heart ,  as i do you .
the last time i was in exeter ,  the mayor kindly showed me the castle there and called it  “  my lord !
the devil take your soul!
retreat !
why do people love you ?
even though half of him is like a
and ,  if that’s not true ,  how should i wrong a brother ?
fire and brimstone !
i’d like to introduce you to my friend .
fight valiantly today .
isn’t there any other rite you can perform ?
please ,  rosalind ,  my sweet cousin—be happy .
you can’t do that .
what says that fool of hagar's offspring, huh?
so is my horse, octavius, and for that, i appoint him keeper of the hay.
you have such a husband in me as she is for a wife.
o heaven defend me!
what should such a fool do with so good a wife?
how foolish your fears seem now ,  calphurnia !
i’m forty - eight .
gentlemen ,  i hope you are well .
swear .
you and he are both welcome ,  sir .
the one who claims to be your wife just ran away from you .
why are you doing this ?
and i won’t draw from my own weak merits the smallest fear or doubt of her turning against me ,  because she had eyes and chose me .
well ,  sir ,  because silver has a sweet sound .
being too old to marry someone young .
yes, if a woman lives to be a man.
his nurse ?
do you honestly think—tell me ,  emilia—there are women who’d cheat on their husbands in such a disgusting manner ?
yes ,  and don’t let anyone come in ,  or else i’ll break your head .
silvius ,  keep your promise to marry phoebe if she refuses me .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
when i have praised antony ,  i’ve disparaged caesar .
bastard ,  arrogant noisemaker ,  we’re less afraid to be drowned than you are .
the poor thing !
get up, i say.
you always slip out of the argument like this .
help ,  dear lord ,  or the battle will be lost !
wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so pale.
that’s true ,  my lord: i did get this ring from her .
i hope all will be well.
go ask .
yes ,  the duke of buckingham and i have just returned from visiting him .
what a shameless jerk you are to pretend you don’t know me !
there ,  give it to your whore .
where do you live ?
now ,  infidel ,  i have you at a disadvantage .
if you were king ,  we would do the same .
stop ,  brave lady ,  stop !
no epilogue ,  please .
zounds, sir, you are one of those who wouldn’t serve god if the devil asked you to.
but who is this ?
what do you mean ,   “ in a strange way ”  ?
and so far i am glad it worked out this way, because i am really enjoying the show.
yeah, you have been a real weasel in your time, but i will watch you to keep you from staying up all night now.
but sir ,  he’s crazy .
don’t be sad that this happened because of you ,  because lady luck’s been nicer to me than usual .
everything is a sick joke .
down, prostitute!
let me see your eyes; look into my face .
i’ll break my spells and bring them back to their senses ,  and they’ll feel like themselves again .
so the heavens smile upon this holy act that after - hours will not scold us with sorrow !
my beautiful queen ,  we’ll go up the mountain and listen to the hounds as their barking echoes in the cliffs and sounds like music .
listen to me ,  good shylock .
soldier ,  why are you wearing that glove in your cap ?
let that satisfy you.
how are you ,  laertes ?
patience, i say; your mind may perhaps change.
i'll make so bold to call, because it is my limited service.
say ,  what’s the trouble ?
lovell ,  go as fast as you can to doctor shaw .
then bid them prepare dinner .
well ,  should we head to the tower ?
i’ll be nearby .
by all means .
john duke of norfolk and thomas earl of surrey will lead the horsemen and foot soldiers .
oh ,  well ,  stay till then !
he was graced with lots of natural gifts ,  he was young ,  valiant ,  wise ,  and no doubt meant to be king .
o king stephano !
that’s true ,  that’s very true .
servant-monster!
i’ll do so .
there she is .
have you killed tybalt ?
don’t pity me, but listen seriously to what i shall disclose to you.
but do you really think the prince would treat you that way ?
yet not one among them ,  if all three were to wait on me ,  could be my  “ man ,  ”  because three such fakes don’t amount to a man .
in your christening ,  you shall have two godfathers; if i had been the judge ,  you should have had ten more ,  to bring you to the gallows ,  not to the baptismal font .
our separate journeys shall keep us both the safer .
in sicyon .
i’d give it all up—yes ,  i’d sacrifice them all to this devil here—to save you .
i hope so; i was not born to die on brutus' sword.
i'll listen ,  be an actor too perhaps ,  if i see a place to jump in .
you runaway ,  you coward ,  have you run away ?
inside the bond of marriage ,  tell me ,  brutus ,  is my knowing secrets that appertain to you an exception to our vows ?
why, the wrong is but a wrong in the world; and having the world for your work, it is a wrong in your own world, and you might quickly make it right.
one of them shows that the death of cassio was to be undertaken by roderigo.
there, take it, prince, and if my picture lies there, then i am yours.
there’s nothing of the weak woman left in me .
peter ,  did you ever see anything like it ?
yes ,  now i’m in arden ,  and that makes me the bigger fool .
it is here, hamlet.
tell me which part i’m going to play ,  then go on .
in fact ,  every imprisoned man holds in his own hand the tool to free himself .
this is the way i ever make my fool my purse; because i should abuse my own gained knowledge if i would waste time with such a fool only for my sport and profit.
what ,  you dare put your hands on me ,  villain ?
noble words ,  sir .
some holy angel fly to the court of england, and unfold his message before he comes so that a swift blessing may soon return to our country that suffers under a cursed hand!
he went just left ,  and certainly in a strange state of upset .
partly to confirm my opinion and partly for the satisfaction ,  see ,  of my mind ,  with respect to the demands of proper military practice—that’s the point ?
you'd be king of the island, servant?
do you see that these lovers are looking for a place to fight?
she confessed .
hitting his wife ?
this means i’ve mistreated edgar .
well . — now come ,  my ariel !
sir ,  we’ll follow as soon as mark antony kisses octavia good - bye .
and i will run through fire ,  i will ,  for your sweet sake .
take a few steps—i want to see you walk .
please ,  my lord ,  call her back .
i’ll be nearby to help you ,  and between the two of us we can handle him .
now he won’t give me either .
romeo .
look at this army, of such size and power, led by a delicate and tender prince, whose spirit, with divine ambition puffed up, makes faces at the invisible event, exposing what is mortal and unsure to all that luck, death, and danger dare to do, even for an eggshell.
armed forces have already landed .
go to the platform ,  brutus .
i am so exhausted my spirits are dulled; sit down and rest.
we will rise early tomorrow ,  and be on our way .
please remember ,  love .
how do you mean ?
look here ,  this is the entrance to his room .
ride, ride, messala, ride, and give these bills to the legions on the other side.
i'll teach you how to flow.
he was armed ,  you say ?
bottom ,  you’re pyramus . —and flute ,  you’re thisbe .
these good fellows will bring you to where i am.
there's fennel for you, and columbines.
look to the queen there, ho!
revenge !
for pity ,  my child is dead; and ,  with my child ,  my joys are buried !
you can hear them all night long .
she says something ,  sir ,  but i will not repeat it to you .
what's the matter?
it sang about my crimes .
is there any natural cause for hardening of the heart ?
in private ?
you were right the first time .
hang on a minute ,  here’s some money for you .
please be careful .
i'll be with you soon .
what, ho, brabantio!
i really want to sleep now .
your mother .
i’ve been practicing fencing constantly since he went off to france .
have you heard of them?
faith ,  i must ,  or else she'll raise a ruckus in the street .
this sin of greediness digs in deeper; grows with a more dangerous root than summer-seeming lust; and it has been the sword of our slain kings.
how now!
oh ,  it’s horrible ,  horrible .
now that i think about it ,  i really want it .
how much does he owe the jew ?
my ever-gentle cousin, welcome here.
o wretched villain!
who will bear the guilt for our great slaughter?
go find him ,  speak gently ,  and bring the body into the chapel .
his cowardly lips turned white ,  and the same eye whose gaze terrifies the world lost its gleam .
what is thisbe?
i’ll let you know right away how it’s going .
gave it a judge's clerk!
i beg you, hurry.
ask for me tomorrow ,  and you’ll find me in a grave .
oh ,  uncle ,  it’s better to smile and flatter indoors where it’s dry than get soaked out here .
lucius !
sword and dagger.
it’s nothing ,  my lord .
no, had she been true, if heaven would make me such another world of one entire and perfect crystal, i wouldn’t have sold her for it.
not romeo ,  prince; he was mercutio's friend; his mistake finishes only what the law should end ,  the life of tybalt .
they wash his wounds with tears.
and why are you so pale ?
but a terminal disease requires extreme treatment ,  or nothing at all .
tybalt ,  my cousin !
i accept it freely, and will play this brother's wager honestly.
there was no limit to what his lustful eye and savage heart would prey on .
we are all are punished .
is it my lady mother?
sir, for your hurts, i myself will be your surgeon.
moor, she was chaste; she loved you, cruel moor; so my soul goes to heaven, because i tell the truth; so speaking as i think, i die, i die.
drowned !
death of your soul!
if he backs down ,  he’ll become as notorious a villain and as saucy a jack as ever walked on god’s earth ,  in my opinion .
remember march ,  march 15th .
no ,  they’re busy and as excellent as ever .
i can’t make up for everything that i’d like to ,  so accept such kindness as i can offer .
he wants me dead .
king edward was going to marry lady lucy—your mother can vouch for that—and then he was betrothed to bona ,  the king of france’s sister - in - law .
well ,  it must have been signior benedick .
cassius, stop worrying.
give me your hand and let me see you dressed in woman’s clothing .
no ,  no ,  they wouldn’t .
don’t try my patience and push me too hard, because the sight of you makes me sick.
mercy on us!”— “we’re breaking up, we’re breaking up!”—”goodbye, my wife and children!”— “goodbye, brother!”—”we’re breaking up, we’re breaking up, we’re breaking up!”— let's all sink with the king.
that only proves how inexperienced you are .
liar ,  and slave !
have lucius and titinius guard the door .
varrus and claudio !
do you make fun of me ?
do you want to know what i wrote ?
help, help, help!
what is your name ?
i'll say that that gray streak is not the morning sun, it’s only the pale reflection of cynthia's brow; and that’s not the lark whose notes hit the high ceiling of heaven so high above our heads.
o, woe is me, to have seen the man i have seen, see the man i see!
i will die and leave death everything .
portia, go in awhile, and by and by, your heart shall hear the secrets of my heart.
loss upon loss !
give me details .
i want to hear more about this .
i'll make no more mothers for fish; or fetch in firing wood when asked to, or scrape dishes, or wash dishes; 'ban 'ban, ca—caliban, has a new master—get a new man.
o iago ,  the pity of it ,  iago !
then stand with us.
i have the motivation ,  the willpower ,  the ability ,  and the means to do it .
have you forgotten the foul witch sycorax, who had grown in to a circle with age and envy?
now ,  brutus ,  you have only yourself to thank .
what he will do with it heaven knows, i don’t; i only give it to him to please him.
i would whip such honest rogues .
as i remember, this should be the house.
good hermia ,  don’t be so angry with me .
buzz ,  buzz !
did you see the weird sisters?
i'll call upon you in a minute.
but if you conspired against my position while you were there ,  i might be interested in the reason for your stay in egypt .
boy !
why do you spit at me ?
age, shame on you!
it warms my heart to encounter such a country bumpkin .
my lord ?
what in the world do you call this ,  tailor !
don’t .
come on then, let's go to bed.
so you’re admitting clarence ,  my father ,  is dead .
i’m begging you ,  take the cork out of your mouth so i can drink the news .
mercutio ,  you hang out with romeo ,  hang out !
i never talked with her in my life .
no ,  my good lord .
here are more of us .
past noon .
justice ,  find the girl !
they’re all ready to eat dinner .
i am very sorry that you are not well .
what have you two sisters done ?
get fuel for us and you had better be quick about answering the other business .
i think you’re denying what you really are .
did he treat you well when you saw him ?
but i’ll stop rebuking you .
i will not fail!
not old enough to be a man ,  but not young enough to be a boy .
all is confirmed ,  my lord ,  which was reported .
why ,  how now ,  ho !
do you see that cloud up there that looks like a camel ?
what news ?
don’t move until the signal .
hurry .
let’s hear what antony has to say .
i am weary of this moon.
o all you host of heaven !
generous madam ,  whatever shall become of michael cassio ,  he'll never be anything but your true servant .
god be at your table !
but you were with him ,  weren’t you ?
you are forward ,  my lord ,  you are forward .
i can’t talk about my happiness anymore .
welcome to cyprus .
did you hear this ,  gonzalo ?
if i had three ears i’d listen with all three .
set up the goblets of wine for me on that table .
take them away .
no ,  i swear ,  i don’t even know what’s in it .
oh ,  mighty caesar !
my breath, cooling my soup, would make me ill, when i thought about the damage a mighty wind might do at sea.
away!
she give it cassio !
and ,  for as the first installment of a greater honor ,  he ordered me ,  from him ,  to call you baron of cawdor .
you mock me, sir.
should i go convince my daughter to marry you ?
i love my master ,  and he’ll find me very hard - working .
oh ,  are you really !
and i’ll use my methods so well, that they shall go far with little effort.
give it up and go drink .
is this the noble moor whom our full senate said had it all?
i must get his belongings ashore.
hum !
yes ,  he has .
can’t do it .
what early tongue so sweetly salutes me?
is it possible dat i sould love de enemy of france ?
my eyes are made the fools of by the other senses, or else my eyes are worth all the rest.
why, then the poles never will defend it.
this letter’s going to turn him into a starry - eyed idiot .
no i don’t ,  believe me .
the beautiful rosaline whom you love so much will be at capulet’s traditional feast ,  along with every beautiful woman in verona .
why, have you seen anything more wonderful?
help ,  ho !
here ,  my good lord .
messenger after messenger delivered news of your bravery to the king with praise for how you defended his country .
o husband!
lord ,  may i never see a day of trouble until the day i let someone treat me like that .
don’t ask to see this letter .
shall caesar send a lie ?
o child !
my master will be here in the morning .
good night ,  good night .
hide ,  fox ,  and show all later .
today was the day i breathed my first breath .
do so: laziness i inherited teaches me to go down, oh!
the field and town are afraid of me.
what could my sister’s letter to him say ?
it’s often the case that having something makes us spoiled ,  while not having it turns out to be advantageous .
i'll have some proof.
it is enacted in the laws of venice, that, if it is proved against an alien that by direct or indirect attempts he seek the life of any citizen, the party against whom he schemes shall seize one half his goods; the other half comes to the public treasury of the state; and the offender's life lies at the mercy of the duke only, above all others.
there he is !
pyramus draws near the wall; silence.
open your gates .
i obey all your thoughts .
well ,  to my choice:  “ who chooses me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  i will assume i am deserving .
well, i understand.
as for my daughter katherine ,  this much i know: she’s not for you—more’s the pity .
i will leave here tonight .
come on ,  please sing .
i’ll look into it further .
i’ll make her come right away ,  i promise you .
shall we check him out?
scrape the plates !
does your other mouth call me ?
but insincere men ,  like horses who are too lively at the start of a race ,  make a big show of their spirit .
the gentleman who serves you only for profit and is only superficially loyal to you will take off when it starts to rain and leave you alone in the storm .
you are gentlemen of brave spirit: you would lift the moon out of her orbit if she would continue in it for five weeks without changing .
ok, again.
you are now only fallen in his mood ,  a punishment more in policy than in malice; even as some one would beat his defenseless dog to scare an imperious lion .
o antony, don’t beg your death from us!
your brother is banished by decree .
my good friends ,  listen !
i had no sense of judgment when i swore love to her.
a woman should always pick an older man .
it’s true .
is it within reason and can be done ?
when they’re endangered ,  i save them .
there's enough wood inside .
oh ,  that’s with worry .
i will beat you severely with an iron wit, and put away my iron dagger.
welcome then.
where is my mother?
i tell you ,  they are not honest men .
oh banquo ,  banquo ,  the king has been murdered !
i’m a soldier ,  more experienced than you ,  and better able to give orders .
yes, every man away.
the crows flying down below look as small as ants .
disgustingly filthy rumors are circulating.
my fingers itch.
who's there ?
won’t you wait a minute ?
anger does not protect the angry well .
how oddly you reply !
sweet bassanio, my ships have all sunk, my creditors grow cruel, my funds very low, my promise to pay to the jew is in default; and since, in paying it, it is impossible for me to live, all debts between you and me are canceled if i might only see you at my death.
at least i’ve got some booze to comfort me .
the carriages, sir, are the hangers.
then there is the count palatine .
well ,  think of marriage now .
come here .
he almost begs for the opportunity to help you .
did cicero say anything ?
don’t be afraid of what i think.
if we are like you in the rest, we’ll resemble you in that.
passion, i see, is catching; for my eyes, seeing those beads of sorrow stand in yours, began to tear.
you may come across better food ,  but not a warmer welcome .
where ,  good miss mary ?
to whom do you speak this ?
you are as wise as you are beautiful.
do you need my help ?
please ,  sir ,  hurry up .
the king has bet six barbary horses ,  and he has prepared six french rapiers and daggers with all their accessories .
if you do ,  i shall never love you after .
shame on it !
oh ,  do you think we’ll ever meet again ?
canidius ,  take our nineteen
the poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree, sing all a green willow; her hand on her breast, her head on her knee, sing willow, willow, willow.
so ,  so .
yes ,  he’s the one who first told me about her .
you have a fat friend at your master’s house: she took care of me in the kitchen today ,  thinking i was you .
was it hamlet who wronged laertes?
tybalt wanted to kill you ,  but you killed tybalt .
a rogue teaching me my duty !
wait for me, if you dare; because i know well that you are running before me, moving from place to place, not daring to stand still or look me in the face.
it would be good she were spoken with ,  because she may scatter dangerous ideas in rude minds .
some two months away ,  up higher toward the north ,  he first shines ,  and the high east stands ,  just as the capitol ,  directly here .
the one who plays the part of the king will be particularly welcome .
but, really, sir, we have taken a holiday to see caesar and to rejoice in his triumph.
shall i be afraid when a madman stares at me ?
she’s alive .
they’re murdering caesar !  ”  who’s there ?
well ,  my lord .
no ,  it heals gradually .
i gave you everything— and it was about time too .
you go to juliet ,  help her ready .
wrapped up queen ”  is good .
go find him there .
but i smile at swords, laugh scornfully at weapons, brandished by man that's been given birth by a woman.
antipholus ,  aren’t you originally from corinth ?
no more .
but since i’ve gotten myself involved this far ,  because i’m so stupidly honest and because i like you so much ,  i’ll keep going .
for that kind of relief ,  the patient must heal herself .
servant, get away.
yes ,  that’s why you have to die .
these fellows have some soul; and someone like that is how i am.
by mary, have patience; or i shall say you are totally in a temper, and not a man.
that day will never come .
give me a candle !
i grant indeed it hasn’t seemed so ,  and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment .
quiet there !
we still have hope .
has cassius lived to be only mirth and laughter to his brutus, when sadness and ill-tempered blood aggravates him?
this was the noblest roman of them all .
look ,  here comes helena .
please forgive me ,  master .
you pulled my sleeve; do you want to speak with me?
it’s easier to buy young people than to beg or borrow them .
how fares my juliet?
i’ll come see you right away .
are there parties?
yes, for the state; not for antonio.
are you good or evil ?
if you see me without it ,  you can be confident i’m dead .
when we’re in love ,  we don’t see with our eyes but with our minds .
i should make very fires of my cheeks burn modesty into ashes, if i only spoke your deeds.
i'll break my spells ,  i'll restore their senses ,  and they shall be themselves again .
it’s almost morning ,  but i’m sure you’re not fully satisfied about what happened .
it’s shameful ,  and we have to make some changes right away .
ah ,  my good lord ,  what have i seen tonight !
o heavens !
i humbly thank you ,  sir .
that’s a good way of putting it .
help ,  ho !
chorus off-stage: bow, wow!
good news ,  good news !
you poisonous slave ,  fathered by the devil himself through your wicked mother ,  come out !
blow the trumpets .
let him command, and it shall be penance for me to obey, whatever the bloody business is.
shame on you—get on board !
he is not yet arrived and i don’t know anything only that he's well, and will be here shortly.
away !
where are you ?
with crisscrossed laces ?
flute, the bellows-mender!
no ,  pompey ,  i haven’t had anything to drink .
i’m suddenly afraid .
have a good-night.
how did you come to be the attack of this dreamer?
o, kinsman too nice, and yet too true!
uncle of exeter ,  release the man who was arrested yesterday for railing against me .
but they are dead ,  and you killed them ,  you slave of the devil .
tell me ,  please: how many boys and girls will i have ?
he should swear by his two - faced self ,  and that’s an oath i’ll believe !
i’m not in the mood .
ah ,  where’s my servant ? —give me some brandy . —these griefs ,  these pains ,  these sorrows make me old .
let a beast be lord of beasts ,  and his cattle shall stand at the king's dinner table .
he was the captain of a flimsy boat that was practically worthless because it was so small .
you’re in a bad mood ?
oh ,  poor shepherd !
i will not trust you ,  i won’t; and i’ll stay in your cursed company no longer .
but why am i telling you this ?
those are only two of his weapons .
they lie in bed while they dream about the truth .
and what poor duty can’t do, noble respect takes it in force, not merit.
o ,  she is lame !
it would be better for macbeth to rule than someone like me .
where are these hearts?
think about it.
please be quiet .
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder .
and i’m like helena ,  until the fates kill me .
four legs and two voices; a most delicate monster!
i’m headed for your niece ,  sir .
his ship is heavily timbered, and his captain is very experienced and has a good reputation; therefore my hopes, not excessively fed to death, stand in heavy anxiety.
where are his eyes ?
o heaven!
then get to work ,  poison !
how will you live?
why, by making him incapable of othello's place; knocking his brains out.
such men as he is are never at ease in their hearts when they see a man greater than themselves; and for that reason they are very dangerous.
accursed ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day !
i am content .
and then he was offered it the third time; he pushed it aside the third time, and still, as he refused it, the crowd shouted, and clapped their rough hands, and threw their sweaty night hats into the air, and uttered such a great deal of stinking breath because caesar refused the crown, that the smell almost choked caesar, because he fainted and fell down from it.
you haven’t seen anything ,  then ?
seyton ,  send out .
yours ,  claudio ,  yours ,  i say .
give us a light there, hello!
add to these eight thousand four hundred knights ,  squires ,  and brave gentlemen ,  five hundred of whom were given the title of knight only yesterday .
don’t swear at all; or if you will ,  swear by your own gracious self ,  which is the god that i worship ,  and i'll believe you .
i have to go and live, or stay and die.
we have lost best half of our attack.
did romeo's hand shed tybalt's blood ?
he loves to hear me tell him how men can be snared by flatterers ,  just like unicorns can be captured in trees ,  elephants in holes ,  and lions with nets .
a daughter ?
what ?
he has the courage to do a lot ,  and ,  in that unconquerable temper of his mind ,  he has a wisdom that guides his courage to act in safety .
take this ,  too .
but i’ve often heard him argue that when sons are at their prime and their fathers are declining ,  the sons should be their fathers' guardians and manage their fathers' money .
if you send them word that you won’t come ,  they might change their minds .
breaks my head across ?
i appreciate your frankness and your brevity .
on the ground !
here, here i will remain with the worms that are your maids.
i think it’s just before twelve .
cassio was attacked here in the dark by roderigo and men who escaped .
i think ,  in faith ,  she loves me .
there must be some mistake ,  sir .
if you keep your promise, i shall end this strife, become a christian and your loving wife.
a most high miracle!
gentles, perhaps you wonder at this show; but wonder on until the truth makes all things clear.
yes, more.
your husband in your bosom lies dead there, and paris too.
i think we are too bold to interrupt your sleep.
when he couldn’t what ?
enough with the bad faces ,  and begin .
let’s go !
go away!
where could i have lost that handkerchief ,  emilia ?
why ,  he had none .
and so it is .
now, you’re sociable; now you’re romeo; now you are what you are, by art as well as by nature.
he hasn’t arrived yet .
don’t bother us.
my name’s roderigo .
goodbye ,  my lord .
was this ambition ?
tomorrow we'll speak among ourselves, again.
with all my heart, if you can get a wife.
they’re saying i’d be an animal without a heart if i stayed home today out of fear .
this one to your majesty ,  this one to the queen .
thunder] alas, the storm has come again!
did he get away clean ?
nor i.
oh, kiss me through the hole of this vile wall.
the town is empty; on the seashore ranks of people stand, and they cry, "a sail!
never mind ,  don’t tell me ,  for i have heard it all .
they made more money and got more attention in the city .
it can’t be anything else .
portia ,  goodbye to you .
good - bye .
no ,  i say it is very contemptible ,  and begin to find myself fooled by it .
the man’s going crazy .
must i give way and room to your rash anger?
for my own good ,  all other problems will have to wait .
behold, here is the usurper's cursed head.
very potent ,  grave ,  and reverend signiors ,  my very noble and approved good masters ,  that i have taken away this old man's daughter ,  is very true; true ,  i have married her .
i am jester to oberon and make him smile, as when i trick a fat horse that’s been eating beans into neighing like a newborn female; and sometimes, i hide near to the town gossip's beer mug, looking like a roasted crab; and, when the gossip drinks, i bob up, against her lips, and pour the ale on the withered skin of her neck skin all the way down.
i will not fail !
how are you, my very beautiful bianca?
romeo !
what warlike noise is this?
help !
i don’t know .
happily this is the second time he uses them, for they say an old man is twice a child.
do we know this face or not?
i’ll be vain and proud ,  i’ll read up on politics ,  i’ll insult sir toby ,  i’ll get rid of my lower - class friends ,  and i’ll be the perfect man for her .
you may be rightly just ,  whatever i shall think .
oh pyramus, arise, speak, speak.
the words expressly specify  “ a pound of flesh .  ”  so take your penalty of a pound of flesh ,  but if you shed one drop of christian blood when you cut it ,  the state of venice will confiscate your land and property under venetian law .
for shame !
well, death's the end of us all.
it must be self-offense.
pay attention to metellus cimber .
what could i say ,  my dear ?
i’m in a rush .
give me ,  "  said i .
for what ,  please tell me ?
she’s lying on the ground just like him ,  blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering .
what would you write about me, if you should praise me?
who calls?
please ,  dear ,  come here .
it is a quick lie ,  sir ,  it will go away again from me to you .
beautiful ladies, you drop holy bread in the way of starved people.
i married them; and their secret wedding day was tybalt's doomsday ,  whose untimely death banished the new - made bridegroom from this city ,  for whom juliet pined ,  and not for tybalt .
kate is as straight and slender as a hazel - twig ,  her hair as brown as hazelnut shells ,  and she herself sweeter than the kernels .
but i’ll deliver sir andrew’s challenge by word of mouth ,  describing sir andrew as courageous in battle and convincing the young gentleman that sir andrew is furious ,  impetuous ,  and a skilled fighter (he’ll believe me because he’s young) .
for the other men ,  we can make them believe anything we choose .
yes ,  the second time around ,  since ,  as they say ,  old people become children again .
it’s so scary to look down !
should i believe that death is in love with you ,  and that the awful monster keeps you here to be his mistress ?
did i say "better?
you’ve won the wager ,  and i will add twenty thousand crowns to what they owe you .
well ,  susan is with god; she was too good for me .
but you have all the advantages from the harm done .
fine !  ”  he says .
o heaven!
and they have conspired together; i’ll not say you shall see a party ,  but if you do ,  then it was not for nothing that my nose started bleeding on last black monday at six o'clock in the morning ,  falling out that year on ash - wednesday was four years in the afternoon .
i wonder why cambio hasn’t shown up in all this time .
for which ,  as i told you ,  antonio shall be obligated .
if you could only hear this testament—which ,  excuse me ,  i don’t intend to read aloud—you would kiss dead caesar’s wounds and dip your handkerchiefs in his sacred blood ,  and beg for a lock of hair to remember him by .
content with hermia?
what we do we have been commanded to do .
good day to both of you .
i want to vomit.
norfolk ,  we’re going to have a few blows ,  right ?
sit down for a while ,  and we’ll tell you again the story you don’t want to believe ,  about what we’ve seen two nights now .
what will you do for her ?
madam ,  his majesty asks for you ,  and for you ,  duke of gloucester ,  and for you ,  my noble lords .
very well .
i think belman is just as good ,  my lord .
here is the door ,  sir .
it stands by her bedside .
it remains like this, and the remainder like this.
i grow old ,  and all dignity has been thrashed out of me .
get out, dog!
a two - hundred - year - old witch sewed it while she was in a fevered trance .
should i get your nightgown ?
killing pigs .
macbeth !
banquo and donalbain ,  malcolm !
one creditor showed me a ring he got from your daughter in exchange for a monkey .
caius ligarius doesn’t like caesar, who berated him for speaking well of pompey.
calphurnia !
it is he.
what ,  there’s going to be a masquerade ?
i remember him well, and i remember him worthy of your praise.
go to a convent ,  go .
no ,  the one i gave you .
if this hadn’t been a gentlewoman ,  she should have been buried without a christian burial .
bully-monster, coragio!
by the lord, horatio, these three years i have noted that the age is grown so picky that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he hurts his feelings.
come ,  grey .
is he dead ?
moron !
i can never be proud of what i hate, but i can be thankful even for hate that is meant to be love.
last night she got no sleep ,  and she won’t get any tonight .
if even then they don’t answer to your satisfaction ,  you can say that they’re not the men you thought they were .
in such a night pretty jessica ,  like a little witch ,  lied about her love ,  and he forgave her .
tell me what it’s about .
isn’t this true?
so you got what you deserved ,  and were locked up in this cave ,  which is more fitting for the likes of you than a prison would be .
i’ll find you another horse .
it throbs as if it’s going to fall into twenty pieces .
why do you ask ?
are we all ready ?
give me some wine ,  fill my cup full .
go ahead ,  moon .
hello ,  sir .
happy indeed ,  the way we have spent the day .
what are these things with shrunken skin and wild clothes, that don’t look not like they live on earth, only are still on it?
last night ,  when that star up there ,  that's west of the north pole ,  had moved around to light that part of the sky where now it burns ,  marcellus and myself ,  the clock’s bell then tolling one ,  quiet ,  stop !
good words are better than bad strokes ,  octavius .
i wish we had a signed legal contract .
peace, and be quiet!
and for cassio ,  let me be his undertaker .
why ,  you speak like an experienced and quiet watchman .
am not i your lord ?
o ,  go away !
it must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
and you still say that exile is not death !
no ,  by no means .
nothing is what it is .
i have sent for the strawberries .
you shall be a  “ logger - head .  ”  good faith ,  it’s morning .
i probably am too young for you .
god bless you and make you obedient ,  loving ,  and kind .
a snail ?
they’re in the heat of passion; they simply have to be together .
your shawl good ,  what !
ready to go, but never to return.
have you your father's permission?
my gallant girls !
my life were better ended by their hate than death postponed ,  wanting your love .
someone who can ride fast ,  go to the duke of  here ,  my good lord .
i was telling you he used witchcraft to take this island .
but aren’t you drowned, stephano?
now to my mother.
stand together solidly ,  for fear that some friend of caesar's should happen — don’t talk about standing . —publius ,  good cheer !
then ,  i defy you ,  stars !
i mean, my lord, the fight of your person in trial.
quiet !
they should advance immediately ,  because i sense octavius’s side is a bit fainthearted right now ,  and a sudden push would overthrow him .
but my inspiration works, and she is delivered like this.
oh ,  julius caesar ,  you are still powerful .
i'll bring you to him.
nor our strong sorrow ready to be revealed.
i’m now sure that every bump in the road has been removed .
please ,  listen well .
i thought i was in love with a donkey .
what's the matter?
have you found my daughter ?
but she’s modest and ladylike too .
we're going to church tomorrow.
he picked out the letter  “ g ”  from the alphabet and said a wizard told him that  “ g ”  will take the throne away from his children .
leave him alone .
good volumnius ,  you know that we went to school together .
a wandering knight?
speak one rhyme ,  and i’ll be satisfied .
no, believe me, it is very cold, the wind is northerly.
what do you think of this fool ,  malvolio ?
two great enemies ,  in fact ,  enemies to my peace of mind .
sir ,  sir ,  calm down .
do i look like a club or a beating stick, a staff or a prop?
my father's spirit in arms!
i’m better off because of my enemies ,  and worse off because of my friends .
now is the wall down between the two neighbors.
the more you joke about it ,  the more clearly i feel how serious it is !
my pulse does temperately keep time like yours, and is just as healthful as yours.
anyway ,  sir ,  should i go see the lady ?
everyone else ,  march on with me .
if you maybe suspect my father is an instrument of this calling you back, don’t lay your blame on me.
goodbye .
you snore distinctly: there's meaning in your snores.
we will not have enough food and drink for this feast.
i know that ,  sir .
ah ,  servant ,  this unlooked - for sport comes well .
well ,  goodbye !
what ,  mistress !
go ahead and write it down .
gold ,  silver ,  and common lead .
do you love me ?
proceed, moon.
what is it, laertes?
what’s her skin like ?
oh ,  cassio ,  where did you get this ?
such a one i am to fear ,  not anyone else .
i’m your neighbor and came courting first .
one scene of it comes near the circumstances ,  which i have told you ,  of my father's death .
good-night, good doctor.
amen to that ,  sweet powers !
sir ,  you’re old .
signior benedick !
thank you .
the heavens only announce the deaths of princes .
yes, better, sir.
it’s too bad some mutual friend of theirs doesn’t introduce them .
imagine ,  me ,  a drunk !
well, i'll point you in the right direction.
don’t think it’s good to tell him, for who except a queen, fair, sober, wise, would hide from a frog, from a bat, a cat, such dear concerns?
even better, and worse.
with my officer !
come, come; you'll never meet a more capable man.
not matched equally ,  pyrrhus lunges at priam ,  strikes wild in rage ,  but ,  with the whiff and wind of his fierce sword ,  the shaken father falls .
my words go up, my thoughts stay here below.
who are you there?
here is the will, and under caesar's seal.
good lord ,  you do me wrong— good lord ,  you do— to court me in such disdainful manner .
listen !
first let me talk with this philosopher here . —
you can give good news in many ways ,  but let bad news interpret itself as you tell it .
if you ever did hold me in your heart ,  stay away from happy things for a while ,  and ,  in this harsh world ,  draw your breath in pain to tell my story .
some good friend of his must have died ,  because nothing else in the world could change a man so much .
so perfect and so peerless, are created out of every creature's best virtues.
you’re both wrong .
let's figure out how to do this .
shall i tell caesar what you request from him ?
i’ve changed my mind about that .
go walk the path that you will never return from .
caesar ,  i’m telling you that antony is dead .
what ,  in your own part ,  can you say to this ?
your master and his servant are here .
o my dear cassio, my sweet cassio!
and lovers' hours are a hundred and sixty times longer than normal ones !
if i had as many eyes as you’ve got wounds, weeping as fast as they let your blood out, it would suit me better than to close in terms of friendship with your enemies.
wherever he goes ,  he inspires compassion and people turn against us .
what is this ?
o wife ,  look how our daughter bleeds !
you are completely wrong about this king .
come, i'll go in with you.
is the execution of cawdor carried out ?
i’ll be your mirror ,  laertes .
a most high miracle !
i have such an exploit in hand ,  ligarius ,  that you would hear if you weren’t sick .
but can i have some hope ?
yes, i do.
that’s me .
doesn’t it ,  do you thank ,  become my responsibility to kill he that has killed my king ,  and whored my mother ,  push himself in between the election and my hope to be king ,  tried to kill me ,  and with such knowledge ,  isn’t it perfect duty to kill him with this arm ?
does he look as bright and handsome as the day we saw him wrestling ?
who will thank us now ?
lorenzo ,  please take charge of the management of my house until my husband comes back .
it is bad weather in us all ,  good sir ,  when you are cloudy .
but what do i care about words ?
by heaven ,  i love you better than i love myself ,  because i came here only armed against myself .
death, that has taken her away to make me wail, ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.
then i'll be brief .
we’ll burn brutus’s house .
being a slave has a hoarse voice and may not speak aloud; or else i would go to the cave where echo lives ,  and make her airy voice more hoarse than mine is ,  with the repetition of my romeo's name .
if someone else kills you ,  he will be cursed .
that can’t be .
bring him with us .
now you’re talking .
tell her that i ,  her king ,  am her lowly subject .
what is the matter ,  ho ?
o, yes, and soundless too, because you’ve stolen their buzzing, antony, and very wisely threaten before you sting.
your lives are over .
fake ,  i’m telling you .
it should work .
as still as the grave.
this is trebonius.
what's the matter now?
i’ll open my arms wide like this to his good friends ,  and ,  like the pelican of the old fables ,  feed them with my own blood .
i wouldn’t allow your enemies to say that ,  and i won’t believe it from you .
why, then my shoe is well-flowered.
no ,  if your wits run the wild - goose chase ,  i’m done ,  because you have more of the wild - goose in one of your wits than ,  i am sure ,  i have in my whole five .
and how was that one settled ?
you think i’m kidding .
my words would bounce her to my sweet love ,  and his words would bounce her back to me .
i don’t think about them now .
babbling senselessly ?
i do believe your majesty takes no shame in wearing the leek on saint davy’s day .
yes ,  every man away .
i know he wouldn’t be a wolf if the romans didn’t act like sheep .
your case is better than that .
i have done the deed .
she has a low - pitched voice .
he did ask for mercy .
fine, ok!
i long to hear the story of your life, which must affect the ear strangely.
i promise you ,  sir ,  the cold ,  white ,  virgin snow on my heart holds back my passion .
what did you say ,  my dear nurse ?
your cheeks are thin because of hunger .
and my sweet master ,  i received no gold .
well ,  it’s not for me to say .
make sure that the clowns do not ad - lib ,  since some of them will make certain dumb audience members laugh mindlessly at them ,  while an important issue in the play needs to be addressed .
tell him that the mayor ,  some citizens ,  and i have come to confer with his grace in matters of great importance concerning the general good .
yes ,  my good lord .
i can explain it ,  at least ,  what’s on the grapevine .
after her, after her.
patience awhile, good cassio.
no ,  sir ,  there are more with him .
heaven keep you safe !
there's no trust ,  no faith ,  no honesty in men; all are liars ,  all swear falsely ,  all nothing ,  all deceivers .
what angel wakes me from my flowery bed?
oh ,  tybalt ,  tybalt ,  he was the best friend i had .
is that true ?
for shame ,  you lazy loafer !
do you think i'd make a life of jealousy to follow still the changes of the moon with fresh suspicions ?
i promise you, except for your company, i would have been in bed an hour ago.
listen a little bit more, and then i'll bring you to the present situation which is now here, without which, this story would be most irrelevant.
because i didn’t want to watch while you gouged out his poor old eyes with your cruel fingernails ,  or while your vicious sister sank her fangs into his sacred flesh .
how are you, guildenstern?
come ,  ask me to do anything for you .
eventually he finds him, striking too short at the greeks.
help !
so submit to my mercy or ,  like men who revel in their own destruction ,  challenge me to do my worst .
ask away.
you won’t make a liar out of me .
this ghost is more strange than such a murder is.
i’ll grant you that i’m a woman ,  but i am ,  besides ,  a woman that lord brutus married .
you good - for - nothing ,  let me in .
good day ,  catesby .
i know his eyes are worshiping some other woman ,  or why wouldn’t he be here ?
lysander i want to stop ,  but hermia stops my heart from beating .
i shall grow jealous of you shortly, launcelot, if you thus get my wife into corners.
who will thank us?
beware of the devil .
they call this  “ the argumentative countercheck .  ”  and so on through  “ the circumstantial lie ”  and  “ the direct lie .  ”  and how many times did you say his beard wasn’t cut well ?
i’ll beat him despite his fancy fencing techniques and all the practicing he does ,  despite his youth and manliness .
i haven’t seen him recently .
i’m glad to hear it; because now i shall have reason to show the love and duty that i bear you with a more open spirit.
go to bed ,  francisco .
there ,  diomedes ,  there .
this guy here has banished two of his daughters and blessed the third one without intending to .
what follows, then, my lord?
good friend ,  ”  he said ,   “ say that the faithful roman sends an oyster’s treasure to the great queen of egypt ,  and that he plans to enhance this meager gift by adding new kingdoms to her empire .
ok, enough of that.
how now ,  you secret ,  black ,  and midnight hags !
tell me ,  daughter juliet ,  what do you think about getting married ?
also ,  you’re supposed to visit all the bars and tell anyone who’s drunk to go home and go to bed .
come ,  musicians ,  play .
what were the primary evils he claimed women were guilty of ?
therefore ,  by law ,  you are condemned to die .
to tell you that you shall see me at philippi .
find him ,  titinius ,  while i go ahead to meet the noble brutus ,  thrusting this report into his ears .
good morning ,  cousin is it morning ?
i throw my warlike shield before my body.
where did he go ?
heartily, farewell.
indeed ,  they say that the senators plan to establish caesar as a king tomorrow ,  and he’ll wear his crown at sea and on land everywhere except here in italy .
don’t believe it .
but aren’t some well that we must make sick?
stay hidden and listen .
you have the power to fix it .
do you know anyone who would kill someone for money ?
how can caesar be a tyrant then ?
drunk ?
i’m not really litio .
and this weak and idle play about love ,  doesn’t mean any more than a dream .
why ,  now you speak like a good child and a true gentleman .
yes, by heaven, my lord.
i didn’t think i would see you here .
i wonder why none of you’ve thought about him .
truly ,  sir ,  in respect of a fine worker ,  i’m only ,  as you would say a cobbler .
why, may one ask?
these outbursts of yours don’t even look like real fear .
may they relieve a sick old man’s suffering .
go back with her ?
you have a good ear .
he’s not standing straight enough to hold a flag .
what concern are they?
the evil that men do is remembered after their deaths ,  but the good is often buried with them .
i’m not telling a lie .
you are very trinculo indeed!
how did all this happen?
believe what?
you should know ,  my friends ,  that i have good hopes for tomorrow ,  and that i will lead you as if i expect victory rather than an honorable death .
he’s not sick, my lord, unless it’s in his mind; but he’s not well, unless in his mind; his letter there will show you his state of affairs.
damn them then ,  if ever mortal eyes see them in any bed other than their own !
yes .
you heard her say it herself it wasn’t i.
oh ,  but i’m worried .
stay, then.
but jealous people don’t think like that .
our celebratory hymns will change to sad funeral marches .
and buried ,  noble tyrrel ?
yes ,  do that .
but i’m not dying yet !
what soldiers, milk-face?
i like doing things the old - fashioned way .
my own griefs lie heavy in my heart; which you will take over to have it paired with more grief of your own.
no, no!
here i have few attendants and subjects none .
if this which he swears does appear ,  there is no flying from here or wasting time here .
i beg you to let me go .
take whatever wife you want to bed with you ,  you’ll have a fool’s head forever .
the great fight of the sea and skies separated our fellowship.
commend me to your daughter .
and cassius too .
i'll send a messenger to someone in mantua, where that same banished runaway lives, and he shall give him such an unusual vial of medicine that he will soon keep tybalt company, and then i hope you’ll be satisfied.
if you think about it correctly ,  caesar has suffered a great wrong .
take it easy; he shall see my face no more; lysander and i are going to leave this place quickly.
and now she’ll start moaning ,  of course— are you asleep ,  my love ?
what's the matter ?
if i had the mind to think about all this ,  and if i lacked the mind to see that such a thing could happen ,  wouldn’t it make me sad ?
i can’t talk now .
tell me .
don’t make me do it ,  my lady .
i’ll miss you ,  ariel ,  but you’ll be free . —yes ,  you will ,  yes . —go to the king’s ship in your invisible state .
this is how they do it ,  sir: they measure the depth of the nile ,  according to certain marks made on the walls of the pyramid .
that’s not in her favor .
i think i see you, now you are below me, looking like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb.
there’s a man haunting this forest who abuses the trees by carving  “ rosalind ”  on their barks .
they’re just fine ,  my dear madam .
and i'll still stay ,  to have you still forget ,  forgetting any other home but this one .
very disgusting in the morning when he is sober, and most disgusting in the afternoon when he is drunk: when he is best, he is a little worse than a man, and when he is worst, he is little better than a beast.
don’t be so quick to twist my meaning .
as i came down ?
ha!
no .
that’s right ,  except for the widow dido .
it’s a messenger from the warships .
ho ,  guildenstern !
all i’ll tell you is that the duke has had dinner already .
but why ,  you villain ,  did you kill my cousin ?
whose do you think it was?
a spiteful ,  self - willed ,  badly behaved child ,  she is .
when shall he come?
look how she rubs her hands .
macbeth is ready to fall, and the powers above show us the way.
i mean ,  sir ,  for his weapon ,  but in the imputation laid on him by them ,  in his skill ,  he has no equal .
mutton ?
and you ,  sir ,  what’s  well ,  compared to a fine workman ,  you might call me a mere cobbler .
the poison is as sweet as balm ,  as soft as air ,  as gentle—oh ,  antony ! —no ,  i’ll take you too .
no marrying among his subjects?
where was she born ?
i mistook you for the king.
how is it ,  my soul ?
because he is surely on the island .
you lowlife son - of - a - bitch !
my lord ,  your son has paid the soldier’s price: death .
ah ,  dear nature ,  my goddess ,  listen to me !
the english have promised me thousands of troops .
still harping on my daughter.
o ,  then i see that madmen have no ears .
listen, romeo, listen!
and your stories have egged the murder on .
who can tell me who i am ?
the gods do this in shame of cowardice .
and time itself is ended .
alas, what ignorant sin have i committed?
no ,  i’m as honest as i am christian .
what does he say about brutus ?
no, i swear it as a man.
my lord bassanio ,  since you have found antonio ,  we’ll leave you; but ,  at dinnertime ,  please remember where we’re meeting .
keep me in your thoughts and go comfort your cousin .
you were sent for, and there is a kind of confession in your looks, which you are not very good at hiding.
the will ,  the will !
good - night ,  good - night .
when these tears are gone ,  woman will be extinct .
whether you are a spirit of health or a goblin damned ,  bringing with you airs from heaven or blasts from hell ,  whether your intentions are wicked or charitable ,  you come in such a questionable shape that i will speak to you .
the world's a huge thing; it is a great price to pay for a small sin .
sleep for a week ,  because tonight ,  i guarantee ,  count paris has set up his rest so that you shall rest but little .
go away!
yes, if i know the letters and the language.
believing fools are caught like this; and many worthy and chaste dames just like this ,  all innocent ,  meet punishment .
and for mark antony, don’t think abut him, because he can do no more than caesar's arm can do when caesar's head is cut off.
good night.
just let me say one prayer !
the baron of fife had a wife; where is she now?
is that the latest ?
the noise they make will cause demetrius to awake .
all the rumors have been confirmed .
is it possible?
no ,  he has only a little beard .
the words  “ villain ”  and his name are many miles apart .
murder and treason!
but ,  remember— because that's my business to you , —that you three from milan replaced good prospero; exposed him and his innocent child to the sea ,  which has repaid it: for which evil deed ,  the powers ,  delaying but not forgetting ,  have angered the seas and shores ,  yes ,  all the creatures ,  against your peace of mind .
why do you speak so softly?
if you remember anything before you came here ,  how you came here ,  you may remember .
that baron of cawdor shall no longer betray matters close to our heart.
look you, these are the holes to cover.
you had better go in .
thank you .
he’s my prisoner and you can’t have him .
wasn’t that the best thing to do ?
and does it wake up now ,  hung over from what it so freely committed to ?
and as surely as i am alive ,  i am a virgin .
o good horatio ,  what a wounded name that is ,  things left unknown like this ,  shall live after me !
this haunting business is even stranger than murder .
i’ll keep your words of wisdom close to my heart .
but when i got here, some minutes before the time of her waking up, here the noble paris lay and true romeo, both untimely dead.
the object of poison’s sight; let it be hidden.
a man may fish with the worm that has eaten a king ,  and eat the fish that has fed on that worm .
he woke up the whole house with his loud and cowardly screams .
and you just stand by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure!
tell me where is fancy bred ,  in the heart or in the head ,  how begot ,  how nourished ?
don’t lose any sleep over it.
come ,  my dear love ,  the purchase made ,  the fruits are to follow ,  that profit is still to come between me and you .
then that’s the way it may turn out .
the door’s right here .
everything will be all right .
should we watch this ridiculous scene ?
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  and a courteous ,  and a kind ,  and a handsome; and ,  i guarantee ,  a virtuous gentleman where is your mother ?
to you your father should be as a god ,  a god that created your beauty ,  yes ,  and a god who sees you as a piece of wax that he has imprinted ,  and it is within his power to leave the wax as it is ,  or to disfigure it .
he’s a traitor .
where’s cesario going ?
what’s she doing now ?
descend .
nine or ten times i had thought to have stabbed him here under the ribs .
i did love you once.
pitiful sight!
why do you keep repeating that ,  woman ?
the phoenix is my house ?
this night .
come on ,  bring them in .
now .
what ,  my good lord ?
what a fearful night is this !
if a christian wrongs a jew ,  what should his choice be by christian example ?
confusion's cure doesn’t live in these confusions .
i will, my lord.
goodbye ,  my sweet lord . —goodbye ,  my sister .
to have seen much but own nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands .
may heaven save us from indecent thoughts !
i am a very villain if i don’t .
was he a gentleman?
it’s too late .
is this a dagger which i see before me ,  the handle pointed toward my hand ?
but she’s got to die ,  or she’ll cheat on other men .
you’re sharpening that knife not on your sole but on your soul ,  you cruel jew .
behave as we would in denmark.
my soul depends on it— a thousand times good night .
fiend angelical!
what is it ,  my lord ?
i have broken his command not to say so.
i shall forget just to have you stand there, remembering how i love your company.
when you just want to eat ,  it’s better to do that at home .
what concerns ourselves shall be the last thing considered.
i’ll leave you now.
why, now you die as bravely as titinius, and may be honored, being cato's son.
you’ll be afraid to hear it.
yeah ,  by my truth ,  the case may be amended .
sport ?
cesario is my name—your servant’s name—fair princess .
i am not required to please you with my answer.
they were villains, murderers.
will you go see the order of the winners of the race ?
i still see you ,  and i see great ,  large clots of blood on your blade ,  which were not there before .
what have you done?
oh !
what about it ?
you’re too bitter .
well ,  i’m the man you’re speaking of .
the container of that great soul is now cold .
here comes another group to see for you.
when could they say ,  until now ,  those that talked about rome ,  that her wide walls were ruled by only one man ?
my prayers ,  you hussy ?
sad hours seem long .
how every fool can play on the word !
if there is any one fit to govern ,  speak .
i think she’s the most wonderful woman i’ve ever laid eyes on .
my husband is dead .
they have a coin in england stamped with the figure of an angel ,  but that’s just engraved on the surface .
indeed ,  la ,  without an oath ,  i’ll make an end on it .
i don’t know what you mean by that, but i’m sure caesar fell down.
why are you telling me about robbing ?
madam ,  keep up hope .
but i have a sinking feeling anyway .
you’ve lost your resolve .
it’s falling into place .
he may not ,  as lower persons do ,  select for himself ,  for on his choice depends the safety and health of this whole state ,  and therefore must his choice be subject to the voice and consent of that state that he is the head of .
whore ,  your lover’s dead now ,  and you’ll be going to hell soon .
he asked me to give his father this letter ,  and threatened me with death ,  going into the tomb ,  if i didn’t leave ,  and i left him there .
my gentle puck, come here.
cure her of that.
let me go, sir, or i'll knock you over the head.
but you can make amends now.
a night isn’t much time for addressing matters of this importance .
how did her eyes come to be so bright ?
i cannot live without her .
my daughter !
what will you tell her ,  nurse ?
in such a night thisbe fearfully tripped over the dew, and saw the lion's shadow before the lion itself, and ran away dismayed.
and what other oath than honesty to honesty promised that this promise shall be, or we will die for it?
my lord, my lord!
it is too late.
uncle ,  please give me your dagger .
the will !
everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged.
please grant my prayer so my faith doesn’t turn to despair .
why can’t that be the skull of a lawyer?
a cry inside] damn their screaming !
there’s nothing to fear in him .
cassio, do you any idea who they are that have mangled you like this?
we will go from here to inverness ,  and then we will bind us further to you .
a roman.
i say  “ force ”  because brutus would rather i stuck sharp blades and poisoned arrows in his ears than fill them with this .
it can’t be anything else.
yes ,  by mary ,  go ,  i tell you ,  and have him come here .
go ahead .
oh ,  honey !
how are you ,  sir toby belch ?
my lord ,  i won’t miss it .
until then ,  enough .
there is some grudge between them; it’s not proper that they are alone.
you inhuman dog !
they could be content to go to other places ,  and come down with fearful bravery ,  thinking that by this face to impress our minds ,  they have courage; but it’s not true .
ok, so that’s the way the game goes.
she’s wise ,  if i’m judging her right .
and therefore ,  as a stranger ,  welcome it .
stay here a minute .
brutus shall lead, and we will follow him with the most boldest and best hearts of rome.
it was, as i have seen it in his life, a silvery sable.
write this down; and say besides ,  that in aleppo once ,  where a malignant and a turbaned turk beat a venetian and double - crossed the state ,  i took the circumcised dog by the throat and killed him like this .
he’s a conspirator .
no more of this .
i’ll have my lessons in the order and manner
but goodbye .
when these omens all happen at the same time, don’t let men say "these things have their reasons; they’re natural," for i believe they’re warning signs that predict the climate that they point to.
out ,  out ,  you loose woman ,  fortune !
this tunis, sir, was carthage.
i’ll be with you right away .
they keep up adam’s profession .
i’ll pay you .
therefore be patient ,  take no note of him ,  it is my will .
not so ,  my lord ,  because his courage cannot carry his secret - keeping ,  but the fox carries the goose .
i’ll disguise myself in somber robes .
let it go up to heaven .
because i am all of the subjects that you have, who was first my own king; and here you chain me to this hard rock, while you keep from me the rest of the island.
you’re not my friend.
it doesn’t matter; don’t let the statues be hung with caesar's trophies.
you’re going to rest while you’re still damned ?
o prince !
yet ,  countrymen ,  o ,  still hold up your heads !
the sails were dyed purple ,  and they were perfumed so heavily that they made the air seem dizzy with love .
i think about it ,  i think ,  i smell it ; o villainy !
now leave me alone ,  as i said .
then he swore he was a stranger here .
but wait!
remember to possess his books first ,  because ,  without them ,  he's only a fool ,  as i am ,  and hasn’t one spirit to command: they all hate him as deeply as i do .
come on, come on!
no ,  master ,  i’ve been changed in both mind and body .
once more ,  i’m leaving .
the skin is good for your cracked head .
you lying brat .
answer every man directly.
don’t bother us up here .
oh ,  he’s been betrayed ,  and i’ve been ruined .
it's true ,  good lieutenant .
i’m telling you ,  this house is dark .
i’ve shut the memory of your beautiful eyes out of my heart .
oh ,  and monsieur ,  be careful not to break the honey - sac .
only my free will—nothing else .
i’m going to count orsino’s court .
caius ligarius ,  i was never your enemy so much as the sickness that’s made you so thin .
yes ,  caesar ,  but not gone .
not yet .
after a little while ,  i’ll beat him too .
the earth, that is, nature's mother, is nature’s tomb.
fairies ,  let’s go .
is he angry ?
sweet hero; when i imagine you now ,  you seem as beautiful as you did when i first loved you .
let’s go ,  nerissa . —
i did .
but since ,  you from the polack wars ,  and you from england ,  are here arrived ,  and so jump on this bloody question ,  give order that these bodies high on a stage be placed to the view ,  and let me speak to the yet unknowing world how these things came about .
he could never bear carnation .
well, i’ll get going and so deliver these papers as you asked me.
yes ,  but the clerk that never means to do it ,  unless he lives until he is a man .
it may be, very likely.
then how can it be said i am alone when the entire world is here to look at me ?
speak plainly .
oh ,  sir ,  someone would think i was a good fake .
go ahead..
these lords seem so astonished that they’ve lost their use of reason and can hardly believe what they see with their own eyes . —but whatever the reason for your losing your senses ,  you can know for sure that i’m prospero ,  that same duke who was kicked out of milan and landed on this same island where you landed ,  and became the lord of it .
better men than you have heard me speak my mind ,  and if you can’t take it ,  then you’d better plug your ears .
some word there was, worse than tybalt's death, that murdered me.
why do you come here ?
well, sir.
right this instant ,  i’m going to caesar’s funeral .
if you want to read it ,  as i haven’t heard it yet ,  though i’ve heard too much of phoebe’s cruelty .
are you going riding this afternoon ?
count how many times the clock chimes .
has anyone ever courted a woman in this state of mind ?
farewell .
tell my servants not to mention that we were gone .
honest, my lord!
i’m coming in peace .
goodbye ,  launcelot .
what ,  in my presence ?
romeo !
what false impression did i give you?
may my wrinkles forbid that !
my lord, from head to foot.
don’t be afraid of him ,  caesar; he's not dangerous; he’s a noble roman and has a good disposition .
how’s your night going ,  boy ?
and ,  sir ,  tonight ,  i beg you that we may dine together .
with her ,  on her ,  whatever you want to think .
poor bankrupt ,  break at once !
well ,  we’ll see how you act .
go back to my sister’s .
i heard them say brutus and cassius are riding like madmen through the gates of rome.
come on ,  put it away .
tear him apart ,  tear him up !
what’s the matter ?
only go at once.
farewell ,  everyone .
i say he shall go to prison .
it’s always better to get rid of what you’re scared of than to be afraid .
hardly ,  kate .
this is the tune of our song, played by the picture of nobody.
we see the ground on which these sorrows lie ,  but we cannot find the true ground of all these piteous woes without knowing what happened .
and i, for disregarding your feud too, have lost a number of relatives.
worthy cawdor!
now is the sun upon the highest hill of this day's journey ,  and from nine till twelve is three long hours ,  yet she’s not back .
say what you’re here for .
why ,  that’s the coroner’s finding .
iago ,  give these letters to the ship’s captain who brought me here ,  and ask him to pay my respects to the senate of venice .
be thrifty .
what’s the matter ?
did you call for me ,  your worship ?
get going !
oh, excellent young man!
caesar has never been wrong ,  only with good reason ,  and he will not be satisfied without good reason .
oh, teach me your look, and with what magic you have stolen demetrius' heart!
i’m strong - willed .
my lord ,  you loved me once .
will it please you to listen once again to the favor i asked you ?
hass the storm blown over ?
do so, and bid my sweet to prepare to scold me.
do you want to know who they are ,  then ?
let’s not talk about it .
sweet lord, if your lordship were not busy, i should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
a bright day brings out the black ,  poison snake ,  and that means we must walk carefully .
that part is up to you .
is there any voice more worthy than mine to speak more sweetly into great caesar's ear to ask for a repeal of my banished brother’s sentence ?
and whoever lives to see that day will walk with his feet .
what ,  ho !
this is our station .
if god had been willing ,  i wish we had died in the same hour too !
did he receive you well?
what ,  are you a pagan ?
i shall do so; only i must also feel it as a man .
and a bad singer ,  my lord .
i beg you, tell the truth.
put money in your purse; follow the wars; defeat your mood with an false beard; i say ,  put money in your purse .
which two crowns would those be ?
he is worth no more than that .
o, so light a foot will never wear out the everlasting sharpening stone.
his son was a minor only two years ago .
what ,  you ?
o me, what have you done?
we love him highly, and shall continue our graces towards him.
please ,  come with me .
i want to die ,  if what you’re going to say is not a solution to this problem .
more of us are here .
my dear sir !
please tell me seriously what you think of her .
i don’t think so.
now ,  you lie there on the path .
i don’t desire any more.
i can’t change your mind?
see how she comes from confession with a happy face .
how is it that the clouds still hang on you ?
if he’s not in love with a woman ,  then you can’t trust the usual symptoms .
if you tickle us ,  don’t we laugh ?
ha, ha, ha!
he has almost finished supper.
he lives ,  sir .
no; we shall never win a bet at that sport.
don’t let my prayers go unanswered, hamlet.
you are the queen ,  your husband's brother's wife ,  and ,  i wish it wasn’t so ,  but you are my mother .
why do you want a sword!?
should i say to you ,   “ set them free !
that's two of his weapons .
i can tell by how pale and deathlike they look .
and i’m like helena, until the fates kill me.
i’m not like that now .
i will be hanged ,  if some eternal villain ,  some busy and insinuating rogue ,  some scheming ,  lying slave ,  to get some job ,  hasn’t made up this slander ,  or else ,  i'll be hanged .
to you ,  antonio ,  i owe the most ,  in money and in friendship ,  and ,  from your friendship ,  i have a guarantee to get rid of all my plots and intentions as to how to get clear all the debts i owe .
listen they’re howling .
get on your way and hire those horses .
where it takes on some other horrible form that drives you insane .
anyone who builds his hopes on air lives like a drunken sailor hanging on a mast ,  ready with every dizzy nod of his head to tumble to the bottom of the sea .
we must not now displease him .
well ,  he keeps the devil away as well as a man can in his situation .
the fool has planted in his memory an army of good words; and i know many fools that stand in a better place ,  dressed like him ,  except that a tricky word defies definition .
how literal this guy is !
my daughter is still very young .
it’s just midnight.
not yet quite dead ?
today he fought as though he were a god who hated mankind .
i wish she were in heaven so she could appeal to some power to make this dog jew change his mind .
but i don’t have any good sides .
what is ,  my lord ?
signior montano, your trusty and very valiant servant, salutes you like this, with his free duty, and begs you to believe him.
am i not in the right ,  old jephthah ?
that’s not necessary .
let’s not leave him out.
how silver - sweet is the sound of lovers' voices by night ,  like softest music to listening ears !
put the goblets of wine on that table .
that’s not so ,  my lord ,  i am too much in the sun .
i just beg death to wait awhile ,  until i place the last of our many thousands of kisses on your lips .
why should she be murdered?
did you speak of juliet?
is he right ?
dead ,  dead ?
wake up, look up, or i will die with you!
and if the king were on it ,  what would i do ?
that’s all he asks for himself .
and so near will i be ,  that your best friends shall wish i had been further away .
and ,  which is worse ,  all you have done has been only for a wayward son ,  spiteful and wrathful ,  who ,  as others do ,  loves for his own ends ,  not for you .
truly, it must be an english tailor sent here for skimping on the fabric for a pair of a french hose.
now i only scold ,  but i should give you worse; because you ,  i fear ,  has given me cause to curse .
here he comes back .
yes ,  but the clerk will never do it ,  unless he grows up to be a man .
it isn’t healthy to expose your weak condition to the raw-cold morning like this.
come on ,  my dear greek philosopher .
if not ,  then i have no powers of observation .
can you do me greater harm than hate ?
that i don’t trust you.
one of you speak for both of you .
i’ll disguise myself as you and pour out  “ my ”  feelings to hero ,  taking her prisoner with the force of my love story .
what ?
then you didn’t see his face?
we’ll rise and leave early tomorrow .
what kind of help do you need ?
shylock, the world thinks, and i think so too, that you only carry this kind of malice to the very last hour of action; and then, it’s thought, you'll show your mercy and remorse, more strangely than your strange apparent cruelty is; and where you now exact the penalty,— which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,— you will not only loose the default, but, touched with human gentleness and love, forgive half of the borrowed amount, glancing with an eye of pity on his losses, that have been so heaped on his back lately, enough to press a royal merchant down, and get sympathy for his state from brassy bosoms and rough hearts of stone, from stubborn turks and tartars, never trained to uses of tender courtesy.
if you can nod ,  speak too .
the earth has bubbles, as boiling water has, and these spirits are like that.
what are these warlike noises ?
hasn’t he proven himself to be a great villain—slandering ,  scorning ,  and dishonoring my cousin ?
tybalt’s death would be bad enough if that was all .
i have no doubt that it will be a swift and successful war ,  since god so graciously exposed this dangerous plot .
i swear by my holy order ,  i thought you were smarter and more rational than this .
oh ,  antonio ,  i’m sorry i caused you so much trouble .
you have dancing shoes ,  with nimble soles; i have a soul of lead that pins me to the ground .
i had thought to have let in some of all professions that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire.
pindarus ,  ask our commanders to lead their men a little away from this place .
either charles or some prettier thing has mastered you .
oh, my antonio!
if you don’t repay me on the day we agree on ,  in the place we name ,  for the sum of money fixed in our contract ,  your penalty will be a pound of your pretty flesh ,  to be cut off and taken out of whatever part of your body i like .
what sickness did she die of ?
what are you going to do for a father ?
you ,  merchant ,  have you anything to say ?
don’t you ,  dromio ?
well, more in a minute.
since it’s drizzling ,  stand under this overhang with me and ,  like a true drunk ,  i’ll tell you everything .
o i wish i were a glove on that hand so that i might touch that cheek!
heaven will guide its course.
what ,  should i stab him while he sleeps ?
can’t you somehow use your dissatisfaction to your own advantage ?
don’t be afraid although you see me armed, here is my journey's end, here is my bottom and very sea-mark of my last ship.
remember to see me today .
by mary, heaven forbid!
o heavy deed!
ride ,  ride ,  messala ,  ride ,  and give these bills to the legions on the other side .
if the jew her father ever comes to heaven ,  it will be for his gentle daughter's sake; and never should misfortune dare to cross her foot ,  unless she does it under this excuse ,  that she is daughter to a faithless jew .
the king ,  sir ,  has bet that in a dozen rounds between you and laertes ,  he won’t beat you by more than three hits .
give me the gown .
when the blood is made calm with playing, there should be something to fire it up again and to satisfy a fresh appetite, loveliness in favor; sympathy in years, manners, and beauties, all which the moor lacks.
you won it .
i’ll wait over here .
come out of your sockets ,  eyes !
the fact that this summer bird ,  the house martin ,  builds his nests here proves how inviting the breezes are .
don’t let it, brutus.
or the antidote for stinging plants or hollyhocks .
the king my father!
master ,  should i watch the door ?
oh ,  caesar !
she had put a wreath of fresh ,  fragrant flowers around his hairy forehead ,  and the drops of dew that lay in the center of the flowers made the flowers look like they were crying with shame to be decorating the head of that ugly jackass .
but mistress ,  know yourself .
what do you say then, would heart of man once think it?
iago ,  i’m leaving my dear desdemona with you .
where did they vanished to?
read the will!
i can imagine more than i can say—i have more on my mind than words .
give me what i deserve ,  and do your duty !
where is my father ?
just tell me that.
but if she can’t love you ,  sir ?
o, in this kind of love, you love your child so badly that you are going crazy, seeing that she is well.
there must be some resolution .
i had no idea she was cheating on me .
brutus is wise ,  and ,  if he were not in good health ,  he would do something about it .
if i could shoot lightning bolts from my eyes ,  i can tell you who’d be on the ground .
you shall do it ,  mark antony .
what ,  still in tears ?
show me the caskets and let me try my luck .
do you work in this house ?
oh ,  finish what i’ve begun .
maybe they call me that because i am cheerful .
i will ,  even if i were king of all kingdoms .
i hope god keeps that monster from growing in othello’s mind !
i think you came to see my mother’s wedding instead .
this skull has been buried three - and - twenty years .
oh no ,  not if you say it right .
o, did he?
no, my good lord.
on my honor, sir, i heard a humming, and it was a strange one too, which woke me up.
but you’re not listening to me.
i have no more royal sons for you to murder .
cupid is a bad boy for making poor women go crazy like this .
i'll beat the rogue into a wicker bottle.
moors are moody people . —so sell your lands and raise a lot of cash .
a challenge ,  on my life .
where are you now ?
you do your job well .
if you agree with my opinion ,  when it is time ,  it’ll be more honor for you .
you cannot find scorn and derision in tears of love.
is the king dead ,  the empire dispossessed ?
who tricked you ?
sir walter herbert ,  a renowned soldier; sir gilbert talbot; sir william stanley; oxford; the highly feared pembroke; sir james blunt; rice ap thomas ,  with a valiant crew; and many other famous and powerful noblemen .
i cannot live to hear the news from england ,  but i do predict that the throne belongs to fortinbras .
on this hill and in despair ,  with his slave pindarus .
i kiss the wall's hole ,  not your lips at all .
keep your promise ,  my love .
what right did he have to scold me like that ?
to kill the boys with the luggage !
it won’t go on .
it is called  “ the evil ,  ”  a most miraculous work in this good king ,  which often ,  since my stay in england ,  i have seen him do .
now please go .
let them in .
the more i love him ,  the more he hates me .
then where would you have me go ,  adam ?
bernardo .
that’s what we’re trying to say ,  sir .
i take you at your word.
he has killed me ,  mother .
enough !
so stay for a while .
i’ll never see it .
sad ,  my lady !
you should pity me for that reason ,  not hate me .
what are you waiting for ?
do you think it is this?
i will keep saying the funeral prayers for you, and i will come every night to put flowers on your grave and weep.
what is his name ?
is that how the law sees it ?
i know he’s noble ,  rich ,  young ,  and with a fine reputation .
yes ,  so i thought .
if you do ,  please give it to me ,  because i need to start learning the lines .
what's the matter ?
here, or at the capitol.
i’m sick ,  charmian .
there’s no point in looking for him if he doesn’t want to be found .
i wish my daughter were dead at my feet wearing those jewels !
but, goodbye!
listen to me ,  because i will speak .
to choke carries it away .
you mustn’t think that we are made of stuff so flat and dull that we can let our power be shaken with danger, and think it unimportant.
my wife and i ordered him to hang cordelia in prison and then to make it look as if she committed suicide in despair .
but i slip from underneath her and she falls down ,  crying ,   “ ow ,  my butt !  ”  and starts coughing ,  and then everyone laughs and has fun .
thank you ,  sir .
really ,  i don’t know why i’m so sad; it wearies me; you say it wearies you; but how i caught it ,  found it ,  or came by it ,  what it’s made of ,  where it started ,  i must find out; and sadness makes me so crazy that i don’t know who i am .
i had rather be a dog, and howl the moon, than be such a roman.
who’s that ?
go on ,  tell it .
who's there, in the other devil's name?
he does, because he asked antonius to send word to you that he would be there tomorrow.
i am sorry for you; you are here to answer a rock - like opponent ,  an inhuman wretch ,  incapable of pity ,  void and empty of any ounce of mercy .
it will be hard if  “ cambio ”  loses her .
you didn’t do anything else to earn this punishment ?
wisdom !
then that’s the way it’ll be .
this box is too threatening .
gentle boy ,  good night .
i’m really a pitiful singer .
o monstrous act !
by the mass, well said; a merry bastard, ha!
we you won’t pay for the glasses you smashed ?
no ,  my lord .
here ,  sir ,  is a ring she asked me give you ,  sir .
they would not take her life for one thing she did.
now is the sun upon the highest hill of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve is three long hours, yet she’s not back.
i swear he’s the better dog .
oh ,  how i wish we could oppose caesar’s spirit—his overblown ambition—and not hack up caesar himself !
oh ,  come on . —come here ,  sir .
you must therefore be content to conceal the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and violent expedition .
the whole world thought your father was an honorable man ,  but he was always my enemy .
i heard octavius say that brutus and cassius have ridden like madmen through the gates of rome .
lead’s too crass to hold her .
carried to colme creek, the sacred storehouse of his predecessors, and guardian of their bones.
what’s going on ?
if there are any ,  speak ,  because i have offended him .
by heaven ,  i don’t ,  i don’t ,  gentlemen .
scornful lysander !
before my god ,  i might not believe this thing without the seeing and true testimony of my own eyes .
no .
why do you look so upset ?
princes travel across deserts and the vast wilderness of arabia to come see the beautiful portia .
we’re all lost !
lucius, who's knocking?
halfway down the cliff there’s somebody clinging to the rock and gathering wild herbs—a risky business !
yes ,  it is .
and when she speaks ,  isn’t it a call to love ?
i will perform this ceremony every year .
like hell she was!
the things i need are all on the ship.
no .
oh ,  sir ,  you are too good at predicting the future .
defend me ,  god ,  both when i’m asleep and when i’m awake .
where are you ?
i’m not going to be bothered by you for long .
no more of that.
when evil is dominant ,  death soon kills the body like cancer .
and now ,  please ,  sir , — because it is still on my mind , —your reason for raising this storm at sea ?
honest nurse, farewell.
is the situation in scotland the same?
i’ll tell him ,  my lord .
what’s the matter ?
it is a common thing… ha!
be lenient ,  dearest !
it is a good prophet that follows his own instructions; it’s easier for me to teach twenty people what was good to do than to be one of that twenty and follow my own teaching .
but  hello ,  my lord ,  how have you been doing lately ?
of course .
i hope we have calmly overcome those problems, sir.
i’m a foolish ,  senile old man ,  eighty - something years old ,  not an hour more or less .
stay here for a bit; you shall not go back until i have carried this corpse into the market place .
this is the voice of friar john.
look ,  here she comes .
you’re leaving with my tongue in your tail ?
yes ,  my lord .
more than prince of cats ,  i can tell you .
and on their graves ,  i trust ,  the story of this day’s work will be written in brass .
o day!
but please forgive me ,  darling ,  for the sake of the vows we made to each other so recently .
news from verona!
the lady’s overdoing it ,  i think .
i’m coming ,  slut !
then there’s the count palatine .
i will seize him .
heaven bless the isle of cyprus and our noble general othello !
or is it a grief owned entirely by one person?
what ?
did this fool with the yellow face feast and celebrate in my house today while the guilty doors shut in my face and locked me out of my own house ?
where is that moron of a cook ?
with rosaline ,  my ghostly father ?
that upsets me much more than getting wet .
spirit ,  did you carry out the storm just as i ordered ?
there’s another .
you have done well, that men must lay their murders on your neck.
i look forward to that present .
my liege ,  this man is a villain and a traitor ,  who—see ,  your grace—has struck the glove which your majesty took from alençon’s helmet .
if it pleases caesar to be so good to himself as to hear me ,  i’ll try to get him to do what’s good for him .
either put away your sword or use it to help me stop this fight .
don’t touch me: i am not stephano ,  but a cramp .
danger knows full well that caesar is more dangerous than he .
let me work on him .
and if the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating idiot ,  does that mean ,  you think ,  that we should also be an ass and a fool and a prating idiot ?
go ahead .
i beg you, in your letters, when you shall tell about these unlucky deeds, speak of me as i am; nothing farfetched, and don’t write anything in malice.
haven’t you ever heard the saying ,   “ two can conspire to put one away ”  ?
brutus speaks .
yes ,  my master .
but macbeth is.
and last night at dinner ,  you got up abruptly and paced back and forth with your arms crossed ,  brooding and sighing ,  and when i asked you what was the matter ,  you gave me a dirty look .
pinch my nose ?
i think that one of them is still around here, and cannot make a getaway.
it is important that the moor should be more than reason; but if she is less than an honest woman, she is indeed more than i took her for.
if your gentle souls are still flying in the air and have not yet landed where they will remain forever ,  hover around me with your airy wings and hear your mother’s lament .
ha!
i’ve fought my way through obstacles twenty times more terrifying than you with this weapon .
now i only scold, but i should give you worse; because you, i fear, has given me cause to curse.
she’s busy and cannot come !  ”  is that an answer ?
do you hear me ,  iago ?
indeed ,  she is a very fresh and delicate creature .
do you hear ,  my friend ?
this is all quite pleasant .
i'll beat the rogue into a wicker bottle .
who can move the forest, bid the tree to walk away from his earth-bound root?
starveling !
actually ,  once or twice she sighed and said ,   “ father ,  ”  as if the word were pressing on her chest .
they’re on the march .
oh ,  that bird from hell !
please ,  horatio ,  go with him .
don’t talk about helena .
it shall be called bottom's dream, because it has no bottom; and i will sing it in the latter end of a play, before the duke.
there are ways to regain the general again .
no safety ?
ah, alas!
come here .
it is short ,  my lord .
go on !
only you would look for a fight like that .
even someone with a good and virtuous nature might give way to a royal command .
a snake did do it ,  because no snake ever had a more forked ,  lying tongue than you have .
your wife ,  fulvia ,  is dead .
come, come; lend me a light.
i shook you and shouted at you ,  sir .
how did you escape?
from this time forward, do your messages yourself.
did you hear anything about her in yours?
by the gods ,  you’ll eat the poison of your proud temper ,  even if it splits you ,  because ,  from this day on ,  i'll use you for my entertainment ,  yes ,  for my laughter ,  when you’re spiteful .
so if it pleases my lord, the duke, and all the court to set the fine for one half of his goods, i am content, as long as he will let me have the other half to use, to give it, on his death, to the gentleman that lately stole his daughter: two things more, that, for this favor, he presently becomes a christian; the other, that he records a gift, here in the court, of everything he has when he dies to his son, lorenzo, and his daughter.
is he unable to repay the money?
no ,  how will you do for a husband ?
yes ,  that’s the idea .
cassio’s killed a young venetian named roderigo .
never ,  my lord .
she speaks daggers ,  and every word stabs .
forgive me, i beg you!
your servant kent .
look at the calendar, and come back and tell me.
well, happiness to their sheets!
my lady olivia ,  your niece ,  disapproves of your late - night partying .
come ,  kate ,  let’s go to bed .
why is that ?
i must fall down on that step ,  or jump over it ,  for it’s in my way .
orlando ,  do you really believe that this boy can do everything he’s promised ?
there is only one hope in it that can do you any good, and that is only a kind of bastard hope.
fresh beauty attracts thugs and thieves even more than money .
come to think of it ,  i thought i felt a scab there .
i’ve relinquished my authority ,  so please—i’ll see you all before long .
i know the hand; in faith, it’s a beautiful hand, and the beautiful hand that wrote it is whiter than the paper it’s written on.
no, we’ll all be there to go get him.
i’ve been transformed somehow ,  haven’t i ,  master ?
what do you mean ?
what trash rome is, what rubbish, and what garbage, when it serves as the fuel to start a fire that will throw light on so vile a thing as caesar!
your eyes look threatening .
our army has recently acquired many of mark antony’s former soldiers—enough to capture him .
how will you wreck this marriage ?
but, in the truth of praise, i take him to be a soul of great note, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make true talk of him, he is what you see, and whoever copies him, is his shadow, nothing more.
i can’t remember anything i’ve ever done to offend anyone .
and if we don’t shake hands ,  when i act all nice to the players it will seem like i’m happier to see them than you .
she’s crying .
i’m hanging on every word .
i’ll do it right away .
i know him well .
you have enough holy feeling to advise me to  “ make peace with god ,  ”  but you’re willing to go to war with god by murdering me ?
i’ll join you ,  sir .
nothing ,  sir ,  except grandchildren .
nothing but cruel daughters could have degraded him like this .
i appreciate your concern .
only until noon ,  my lord ?
orsino ,  sir ,  please don’t call me those names .
which way did he who killed mercutio run ?
oh, will you, a dark-natured man, leave me?
i have sent to find him and the body.
how now!
i wish it were over .
the fat, sloppy woman cries.
and yet you will teach me to avoid quarrelling ?  !
he likes me very well ,  and i have given him cause to; just send him here ,  and i'll train him .
say your prayers; say your prayers !
you go down that way towards the capitol; i’ll go this way.
he was armed, you say?
i have an adventurous fairy who’ll go seek out the squirrel’s secret stash and get you some fresh nuts .
oh ,  now i really need that priest who spoke to me today !
and yet ,  to me ,  what is this highly refined speck of dust ?
do they hold the same respect they did when i was in the city?
now i feel better ,  you have vanished .
i’ll go for a short walk to calm down my feverish mind .
this is very true, and he begged me to invite your majesties to hear and see the play.
let's follow him ,  gertrude ,  .
no ,  not until thursday .
man ,  they were asking for it .
night hangs on my eyes; my bones that have only labored to attain this hour want to rest .
the police are here .
when i told you that i had nothing ,  i should have told you then that i had less than nothing ,  because indeed i have indebted myself to a dear friend ,  indebted my friend to his notorious enemy ,  to feed my needs .
don’t stick your head out into the public street to stare at the christian fools with painted faces .
o you gods ,  make me worthy of this noble wife !
here is the count of the slaughtered french .
do you really think i’m no stronger than the rest of my sex ,  with such a father and such a husband ?
o god, i could be put into a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space, if it were not that i have bad dreams.
look ,  he meditates .
what ,  are you hurt ?
come to the capitol .
wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire!
as birds do ,  mother .
both of you are very welcome here .
the people between philippi and this field are only our friends because we force them to ,  because they are unwilling to give us support .
what’s important is the urgency of this mission .
good gentlemen ,  he has much talked of you ,  and i am sure that there are not living two men with whom he feels close .
what ?
you should not have believed me, for virtue can’t graft a new plant onto our old stock but we shall relish of it.
well ,  honor is the subject of my story .
there’s no ambiguity here .
i don’t like the job; but, since i am entered already so far into this cause, encouraged to it by foolish honesty and love, i will go on.
whip me, you devils, from the possession of this heavenly sight!
i’ll make ground beef out of you .
what shall i do ?
i shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster.
oh ,  good judge !
three - time traitor and whore !
the charm’s going to bring things to a head.
yes ,  from the table of my memory i’ll wipe away all unimportant records ,  all kinds of books ,  all pictures ,  all pressures past ,  that my youth and observations wrote there ,  and your commandment all by itself shall live within the book and volume of my brain ,  unmixed with other low thoughts .
the violence of either grief or joy destroys their own keeping of them with themselves.
you need not kneel to me .
goodbye .
let the old ruffian discover that i have many other ways to die ,  and in the meantime ,  we’ll laugh at his challenge .
the first drink makes him a fool ,  the second makes him crazy ,  and the third drowns him .
my heart adores him ,  even though my tongue curses him .
where is polonius ?
my oberon !
my lord ,  from head to foot .
give me your hand.
throw medicine to the dogs ,  i'll have none of it .
come .
let us be united in our revenge against him .
i will drown myself immediately.
since you are a lying hypocrite ,  we must look after you .
turn right at the next turn ,  but at the following turn ,  turn left .
the moon sleeps with her lover ,  and does not want to be awakened !
if this letter doesn’t make him fight ,  i don’t know what will .
poison never landed on such an ugly toad .
if my heart's dear love ,  well ,  don’t swear .
look out ,  here she comes .
i want the law, the penalty, and penalty of my promise to pay.
here i lie and will never get up again .
for you ,  i give myself away and i’m ecstatic about the exchange .
she has betrayed me and shall die .
i’ve heard ,  and it is nothing ,  nothing in the world ,  unless you can laugh at their intentions ,  extremely stretched and done with cruel pain ,  to do you service .
yes ,  please; unleash your wisdom .
would you have the crown which you believe to be the ornament of life ,  and yet live like a coward in your own self - esteem ,  letting  " i shouldn’t "  wait for  " i would ,  "  like the poor cat in the proverb ?
oh ho ,  is that what you’re getting at ?
is it possible ?
i thought i lay worse than in a rebellion, in the chains.
he's a traitor .
how many people are cowards at heart but wear beards like hercules or mars ,  the god of war ?
goodbye .
and isn’t it to be damned to let this canker of our nature do further evil ?
your doctors have expressly forbidden me to sleep with you ,  as there’s a risk that you might have a relapse .
and isn’t, then, well served with a sweet goose?
have you heard of them ?
there it goes, silver!
you know he was the one ,  in the times past ,  who held you back from promotion ,  and you thought it was our innocent self .
god forgive me !
you’re as pale as your nightgown !
o heaven defend me !
let any man perish who isn’t ready now !
which one of you is the lady of the house ?
it would be as natural to me as it is to you: and i should do it much more easily ,  because my good will is in it ,  and yours is against it .
the government of a king dies with him ,  but draws what's near it with it ,  like a gulf .
villain, you die!
let whatever’s going to happen, happen.
cool it with a baboon's blood ,  then the charm is firm and good .
villainous thoughts ,  roderigo !
brutus ,  my lord .
cassio ,  do you any idea who they are that have mangled you like this ?
what do i care what curious eye lists my deformities ?
i feel a lot better after talking to this guy .
huh?
peace ,  peace !
i would risk purgatory for it .
why ,  who’s so stupid that he can’t see through this fraud ?
here are the keys ,  and there is the duke ,  sleeping .
as a friend.
are those men waiting for us?
no ,  lay down and roar; because you have killed the sweetest innocent that ever lifted open eyes .
we’ll figure out the best time and safest route to avoid being found out by my father’s guards ,  whom he’ll send out as soon as he discovers i’ve gone .
proclaim no shame when the compulsive passion takes charge, since frost itself burns as well, and reason pimps the will.
what ,  good lord ,  boy !
yes it is ,  you half - blood .
when i have the juice of that flower ,  i’ll trickle some drops of it on titania’s eyes while she’s sleeping .
i will look for the king .
what news can you tell me of my lord?
take it any way you like.
we’ll meet at the duke's oak.
it must go like this .
mark antony ,  here ,  take caesar's body .
easily ,  madam .
why should titania cross her oberon ?
young men's love, then, lies not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
i’m going to the friar to find out his solution .
the count claudio will marry leonato’s daughter .
fairy king ,  see and listen; i do hear the morning lark .
we'll answer .
cassio screwed her; ask your husband otherwise .
what ,  am i being denied death ,  as well ?
if the job had been painful ,  i would not have come .
bid her devise some means to come to confession this afternoon; and there she shall ,  at friar lawrence' cell ,  make her confession and married .
and how did you get in here ?
the baron of fife had a wife; where is she now ?
yes ,  right now .
i was the only one who refused to give back what i stole .
i thank your lordship, it is very hot.
we should hold day with the direct opposite, if you would walk in absence of the sun.
let’s lay everything upon the king: our lives ,  our souls ,  our debts ,  our anxious wives ,  our children ,  and our sins .  ”  i must bear responsibility for all of it .
now, sir, her father thinks it’s dangerous that she gives in so much to her grief; and, in his wisdom, hurries our marriage to stop the flood of her tears, which, if she does too much crying by herself, may make her too depressed to function in society.
but one ,  poor one ,  one poor and loving child ,  but one thing to rejoice and take comfort in ,  and cruel death has taken it from my sight !
no harm done .
maybe some merchant at the marketplace invited him home for lunch .
that drop of blood that's in control says i’m a bastard, cries my father’s wife was unfaithful, brands the harlot even here, between the chaste unmarked brows of my true mother.
that really would be kind .
he’s ready; get closer and back him up.
how did you come here?
juliet, the count is waiting.
then he shook bassanio’s hand affectionately—and they separated .
give me your hand ,  messala .
tweaks me by the nose?
my lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king.
if it were any other… it’s only that ,  i guarantee it .
go wake juliet .
i’ve had very little joy as england’s queen .
o ,  tell me !
listen to me ,  beatrice— talking with a man outside her bedroom window !
you turn my eyes into my very soul ,  and there i see such black and grainy spots as will not leave their color .
you talk about killing ?
i leave a slimy bastard with you ,  your worship ,  for you to punish and make an example of .
now we'll fight together, and the chance of goodness will like our necessary quarrel!
i’ll give you a good reason to cringe ,  i promise you .
stay, take my hand.
this is the night that either makes me or breaks me .
you have not half that power to do me harm as i have to be hurt.
my dearest love ,  duncan comes here tonight .
amen !
ah ,  how will this all turn out ?
no talking!
sir toby belch !
i will not fight with you .
in a king ,  the sight is unbearable .
come ,  find the conspirators !
read it .
i loved ophelia !
yes ,  they have .
yours ,  i swear .
read this petition.
besides, it seems that, even if he had the money right now to pay the jew, he wouldn’t take it.
come on, wait on him; lead him to my private apartment.
to my sick soul ,  such as sin's true nature is ,  each new thing seems to be the prelude to some great harm .
you take my house away when you take the money i need for upkeep .
anything your highness suffered in that disguise ,  i beg you to see it as your own fault and not mine ,  because if you’d been what i took you for ,  there would have been no offense .
come on .
your attendant asses are getting the horses ready .
my lord ,  my lord !
he followed the old man .
why are you looking for me?
and you can’t deny evidence and argument—they’ve been around since noah’s ark .
oh no !
why ,  it would be better if i cut my left hand off ,  and swear i lost the ring defending it .
let's meet him and greet him.
it shall be said that his judgment ruled our hands; our youths and wildness won’t appear at all, but all be buried in his seriousness.
dying ,  sleeping—that’s all dying is—a sleep that ends all the heartache and shocks that life on earth gives us—that’s an achievement to wish for .
what are you talking about!—how are you saying?
i’ve never heard such confused emotions as what that jew dog was shouting in the streets .
yes ,  sir .
will you marry us here ,  under this tree ,  or should we follow you to your chapel ?
and welcome ,  welcome !
do you confess the promise to pay ?
now, may good digestion follow your appetites, and health on both!
here’s my servant .
when i reach the place he’s calling from ,  he disappears .
and yet for all that ,  if she didn’t hate him to death ,  she’d love him to death .
farewell ,  kind lord .
do you have enough love for me to be patient when my bad temper ,  which i inherited from my mother ,  makes me forget how i should behave ?
how’s your night going, boy?
and wake the goddess of love with a hymn; pierce your mistress’ ear with sweetest touches ,  and bring her home with music .
you’ll both help me ,  right ?
if the common people didn’t applaud him and hiss at him ,  since he pleased and displeased them ,  as they used to do to the actors in the theatre ,  then i’m not really a man .
oh ,  he’s really gone .
and pardon me, my gentle gratiano, because that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk, instead of this, slept with me last night.
the servants of capulet ,  and your servants ,  were fighting before i got there .
did you bring caesar home?
she speaks .
calm down ,  kate .
watch it ,  control your tongue .
it was wild insanity to believe promises made by the mouth and not the heart .
toad ,  that has spent thirty one days and nights under cold stone ,  from whose sweat a sleeping venom was gotten ,  boil you first in the charmed pot !
don’t be scared .
are you content, jew?
what ,  not one came in ?
but did you see them dead ?
he writes brave poems ,  speaks brave words ,  makes brave promises ,  and then breaks them just as bravely .
it’s my duty to be quiet .
brutus ,  this sober face of yours hides wrongs; and when you do them— cassius ,  please .
now ,  good sweet nurse ,  o lord ,  why do you look sad ?
and i .
directly ,  i’m going to caesar's funeral .
can any of your neighbors tell ,  kate ?
come on ,  come on !
what news, my lord?
see ,  they greet you with their hearts' thanks .
do you think you’ve won ?
ha !
if you refuse to allow me to do so ,  your city’s charter and its freedom are endangered .
what love could press lysander from my side ?
here comes the duke now .
or did she ask for them ,  with such a beautiful question as soul to soul allows ?
i’ll be thrilled .
you are your father’s daughter .
if you nod ,  you’ll break your harp; i'll take it from you ,  and ,  good boy ,  good night .
faith, that was not good; still i wish i knew if that stroke would prove to be the worst!
to our house .
my lord?
yes ,  i swear .
by god ,  i am not selfish when it comes to money: i don’t care who eats at my expense .
fair sister ,  will you go with the princes or stay here with me ?
oh ,  i really think she loves me !
please ,  let’s go and find out where he is ,  and help burn up his tangled depression with some delight or other .
they hold up adam's profession .
dear me!
i wish you had my bones ,  and i had your news .
my lord ,  i don’t know that i did cry .
what ,  you shake at that ?
where?
my good lord ,  what is your cause of your problem ?
pretty lady ,  i’m much ashamed of your shocking behavior .
oh ,  these deliberate fools !
i who is cruel am yet merciful; i would not have you linger in your pain.
who’s calling me?
as for me ,  i’m surrendering all my power over to him ,  giving him absolute authority for the rest of his life .
that’s enough .
why, why is this?
are you a man ?
the sad spectacle of the wreck ,  which touched the very virtue of compassion in you ,  i have ordered so safely with similar use of my magic that there is no soul— no ,  not so much damage as to one hair happened to any creature on the vessel which you heard cry ,  which you saw sink .
we'll wait for your lordship.
i beg your gentle pardon; these bloody accidents must excuse my manners, that so neglected you.
death of your soul !
if this letter’s right ,  you’ve got a lot to deal with .
why, love?
my brother and your uncle ,  called antonio— please ,  listen to me , —that a brother should be so guilty of breaking a trust ! —he ,  whom i loved in all the world ,  after you ,  and i let him manage of my city ,  since ,  at that time ,  it was the first of all the cities ,  and prospero the best duke ,  being considered so in dignity ,  and for the liberal arts ,  without equal: since these two items took up all my time in study ,  i cast the government on my brother ,  and i became a stranger to my city ,  being absorbed and wrapped up in my secret studies .
wait !
hippolyta, i got you by waging war with you, and made you love me by doing you injuries; but i will marry you in a different way, with pomp, with triumph, and with partying!
what ,  shall i find you here ?
i do .
get fuel for us and you had better be quick about answering the other business.
merciful powers, hold me back from the cursed thoughts that nature gives way to when we sleep!
my lord?
then you can be strong and say, “bassanio's dead.” my lord and lady, now it’s our turn, o cry, “good joy,” we who have stood by and seen our wishes for you come true, good joy, my lord and lady!
you are a lover; borrow cupid's wings, and use them to soar above that leaden soul.
you did well, and you shall sleep again; i’ll not keep you long.
come on ,  you are as hot as any fellow in your mood as anyone else in italy; and you are soon moved to be moody ,  and soon moody to be moved .
but angelo ,  you’ll pay for this ,  even if it costs all the precious metals in your jewelry shop .
but where will we go ?
you have known what you should not.
did he say it?
by mary ,  i wouldn’t do such a thing for a gold ring ,  or for measures of soft cotton ,  or for gowns ,  petticoats ,  or caps ,  or any little show; but ,  for the whole world  - why ,  who wouldn’t unfaithful to her husband to make him a king ?
now ,  fellow ,  what have you got there ?
the king is virtuous and kind .
we will meet; and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously.
say ,  if you would rather hear it from our mouths ,  or from our masters’ ?
turns out to be untrue; their battles are nearby.
no .
yes ,  if you kept them together and invested them .
we hear our bloody cousins are living in england and in ireland, not confessing their cruel murder of their father, only filling their hearers with strange lies.
i’ll do it even if i find you in the company of the king himself .
no ship could survive this storm .
i could have blown up the town in an hour .
ha !
in this world ,  i’m only taking up space .
alas, you don’t know; i must tell you then.
here's the smell of the blood still.
i can never be proud of what i hate ,  but i can be thankful even for hate that is meant to be love .
they’ll be married tomorrow ,  and i’ll invite the duke to the ceremony .
o you immortal gods !
let that be the latest ,  and be on time .
what an excellent idea—he’ll soak up the wine !
i wish i had been there .
let me wipe it off first .
i think about it, i think, i smell it ; o villainy!
o brave iago ,  honest and just ,  that have such noble sense of your friend's wrong !
quickly, quickly, please, draw the curtain right away; the prince of aragon has taken his oath, and comes to make his choice now.
where?
block up my house’s ears—i mean the windows .
how can that be, unless she drowned herself in her own defense?
o good horatio ,  i’ll take the ghost's word for as real as a thousand dollars !
not so sick, my lord, as she is troubled with a number of illusions, that keep her from resting.
eighty dollars!
he’s changed a great deal .
i told you ,  sir ,  they were red - hot with drinking; so full of smoothness that they beat the air for breathing in their faces; beat the ground for kissing their feet; yet always bending towards their project .
oh ,  control yourself ,  lady !
the moor says the man you hurt is very important in cyprus ,  and that under the circumstances he has no choice but to refuse to reinstate you .
yes, by mary, it’s the coroner’s inquest law.
here comes another group to see for you .
so goodbye until we shall meet again.
i have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is beastly.
no thank you ,  my lord .
he is wise; and, on my life, he has stolen home to bed.
ok .  what’s the bet ?
it can only mean that you have murdered him; a murderer should look like you, so dead, so grim.
who’s that ?
like a young man who wants to amount to something ,  this morning begins early .
would you have the crown which you believe to be the ornament of life, and yet live like a coward in your own self-esteem, letting "i shouldn’t" wait for "i would," like the poor cat in the proverb?
god bless you ,  bottom ,  god bless you .
their sweet air being gone, take them back again, because to the noble mind rich gifts grow poor when the givers prove unkind.
this way ,  we can see how the world moves .
you all know this cloak .
quite jaw - fallen ?
heaven's face glows— yes ,  this solid and compound body with a trustful face— as against the end of the world ,  is sickened by the thought of the act .
passing the bottle] here ,  kiss the book [gives trinculo a drink] .
run to the capitol and nothing else ?
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
she is welcome to stay .
here's not a nobler man in rome than antony .
romeo has been banished .  ”  that news brings infinite death .
honest ,  my lord !
the goodness of the night on you ,  friends !
say ,  isn’t this the latin master cambio ?
if we don’t ,  it’ll be the biggest disappointment of our lives .
but taste my story ,  and relish it by paying attention .
no ,  absolutely not .
blessed pudding!
here comes another jew: we cannot match them ,  unless the devil himself turn jew .
all right ,  then .
your husband ,  being saddled with a shrew ,  projects his own suffering onto my husband .
which troupe is it ?
nothing he did in his life became him so much like the leaving it; he died as someone one who had studied his own death ,  to throw away the dearest thing he owned as it were a careless trifle .
oh ,   master ,  master ,  look !
as for us ,  you know we are antony’s ,  and he is caesar’s .
i’m afraid that i wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabbed caesar .
what do you call this ?
wish me luck .
then i’ll see you again ?
don’t delay ,  caesar .
right away .
indeed ,  hero herself can !
and to make it even clearer ,  we can tell them that i’m playing pyramus but i’m not really pyramus—really ,  i’m bottom the weaver .
they got what they deserved .
the cold wind’s still blowing through the hawthorn tree .
romeo!
if his majesty has anything for us to do, we shall express our duty in person, and let him know so.
what are you talking about ,  man ?
your mistress’s marks ?
go bring them here .
so, jew, though justice is your plea, consider this, that if we all got justice, none of us would see salvation; we pray for mercy, and that same prayer teaches us all to do the deeds of mercy.
you ,  ladies ,  you ,  whose gentle hearts fear the smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor ,  may now ,  perhaps ,  both quake and tremble here ,  when a rough lion roars in wildest rage .
yes, beyond all cures.
oh !
honest lord ,  what you say is true ,  because some of you there present are worse than devils .
do you know captain gower ?
bandage my wounds !
heaven and your thoughts are witnesses that you are.
i wish i were satisfied !
make your eyes jump out of their sockets ,  and your hair stand on end like porcupine quills .
oh love !
i have spoken this much to soften the justice of your plea, which if you follow, this strict court of venice must give a ruling against the merchant there.
the town is asking for a pause in the fighting for negotiation .
there is no terror ,  cassius ,  in your threats ,  because i’m armed so strongly in honesty ,  that they pass by me as the idle wind which i don’t respect .
thou canst not teach me to forget .
your shoes are in pretty bad shape .
if she feels like coming over here ,  i’ll give her your message .
cast spells with them ,  and  “ brutus ”  will call up a ghost as well as  “ caesar .  ”  now ,  in the name of all the gods ,  i ask you what food does caesar eat that has made him grow so great ?
come on ,  envelope ,  open up for me .
i am only hurt.
is she dead ?
nothing .
three thousand dollars  -  i think i may take his promise to pay .
aside] fair meeting of two most rare loves !
but are they all safe ,  ariel ?
these revelations have overwhelmed her .
he’s dead .
goodbye.
oh ,  quick ,  before i’m gone .
come on ,  come on ,  you're drunk .
if you ever loved your dear father — o god!
he had a fever when he was in spain, and, when the fit was on him, i noticed how he shook.
i don’t have that kind of reputation !
were you thinking of spending the night here ?
he looked very thin, as if sharp misery had worn him down to the bones; and in his poor shop a turtle was hanging, and a stuffed alligator, and other skins of ill-shaped fishes, and on his shelves he had a poverty-stricken collection of empty boxes, and green earthen pots, animal bladders, and musty smelling seeds, remnants of leftover twine, and old cakes of roses, were thinly scattered around, to make up a display.
now i have to leave .
i dare not drink yet ,  madam ,  by and by .
all because of what happened to that brat rutland ?
but i am thankful that you have found it .
it’s a horrible thing to die when you’re not prepared for it ,  my gracious lord .
mr. bassanio!— gratiano!
amen to that !
you’d better not wear your dagger in your cap that day ,  or he might slap your head with it .
i’ll watch the play .
why are you leading these men through the streets ?
keep my lover quiet .
the king has agreed to every point: first his daughter ,  then everything else ,  as you strictly proposed .
i don’t know her ,  but i know her father and he knew mine well .
what miracle will he work next ?
come to the capitol.
the island must be mild ,  and have a temperate climate .
will you cover, then, sir?
let me go .
i shall also have cause to speak of that, and directly from his mouth whose voice will deliver it.
who is so low that he wouldn’t ?
out of my sight!
he intends to do something bad to you .
his eyes started glazing over around eight in the morning .
oh ,  lord ,  if they were married ,  they’d drive themselves crazy within a week .
how shall we find the concord of this discord?
i was also ordered to add ,  hail ,  most worthy baron ,  for the title of baron of cawdor is yours .
i hang onto your thoughts .
portia is dead .
read it, great caesar.
my uncle!
keep an eye on her ,  moor .
ok !
the wit you flaunt is like a blunt sword—it can’t hurt anyone ,  thank god . —my lord ,  i thank you for your many kindnesses .
he is in heaven ,  where you will never go .
he says your daughter’s not feeling well ,  my lord .
yes ,  yes ,  the ropes .
antonio ,  as i heard in genoa , — what ,  what ,  what ?
no more than i am well released from.
but did i fall or not ?
when i ran into this holy man ,  those men you mentioned did come to mind ,  in fact .
i can’t find anyone who saw her leave .
do i know these men that come along with you?
no ,  my cousin ,  don’t wish that even one man who is now in england were here instead .
they commanded me to lock my doors and leave you out in this merciless storm ,  but i’ve come out here to find you and take you where there’s warmth and food .
no ,  let's come in .
it’s a lot to ask of a maiden .
i can’t hide what i am .
why does he talk like that to a girl he can’t stand ?
another general shout!
i’ll never speak to you again .
it’s bitter cold ,  and i’m depressed .
a kind good night to all !
let me go.
snout, the tinker!
let us die honorably .
o me!
stanley ,  what news do you have ?
say ,  voltimand ,  what news from our ally ,  norway ?
men that flow backward indeed ,  most often ,  run too near to the bottom by their own fear or laziness .
if he steals anything the while this play is going on, and he escapes detection, i will pay for the theft.
against my will ,  i’ve been told to bring you in to dinner .
look and see .
o woe!
go now and get cash .
do you know any ,  count ?
in the meantime i wrote to romeo and told him to come here on this awful night to help remove her from her temporary grave when the sleeping potion wore off .
where’s america and the west indies ?
if you can look into the future ,  and say what will happen ,  and what will not ,  then speak to me ,  who doesn’t beg or is afraid of your favors or your hateful spells .
not as happy as macbeth, only still much happier.
your son is crazy .
a calendar, a calendar!
a beautiful woman!
thank you ,  the valiant of this warlike isle ,  that so approve the moor !
where are these bloody thieves ?
go with me to bless these two ,  that they may be prosperous ,  and honored in their children .
but now they rise from the dead with twenty fatal head wounds and push us off our stools .
good .
and you called the fairy creature harmless ,  monster .
no, i do remember.
you speak so highly of fools !
we'll teach you to drink a lot before you leave !
though i am not a flattering ,  righteous man ,  at least you can say that i am honest about being a villain .
until then ,  goodbye ,  and keep this holy kiss .
observe her; stand close .
my love !
sit down ,  worthy friends .
why ,  i am glad !
come here, man.
swear on my sword .
silence bestows that virtue on it ,  madam .
o villainy !
i plan to fall into the blackest despair .
here comes the herald of the french ,  my liege .
it is dangerous when the lower nature comes between the ups and downs of mighty opposites .
three times, and the hedgehog whined once.
i wish to god that the golden crown that i’ll have to wear were red - hot steel and burned me straight through to the brain !
weakness ,  your name is woman — a little month ,  even before those shoes with which she followed my poor father's body were old ,  she was totally inconsolable ,  all tears ,  why she ,  even she— o god !
there’s little or nothing of that .
yes ,  my lord .
shut the doors on him ,  that he may play the fool nowhere else but in his own house .
but really ,  are you the one who’s been hanging on the trees those poems that speak so admiringly of rosalind ?
and you have to cut this flesh from his chest .
don’t i have reason, hags that you are, impudent and overbold?
gravestones have been known to move ,  and trees to speak ,  to bring guilty men to justice .
for that reason, good brutus, get ready to hear what i have to say; and since you know you can’t see yourself except in a mirror, i’ll be your mirror, and will modestly let you see that in yourself which you don’t know about.
you drive me past the bounds of a maiden's patience .
don’t be late .
as for your desire to know what happened between us ,  control it the best you can .
still ,  caesar shall go out ,  because these predictions are not only for caesar but also for the world in general .
yes, caesar, but not gone.
your crown is crooked .
are you going to start eating worms and flies ?
we haven’t even talked about who’ll be our torchbearers .
i have ,  when you’ve heard what i can say and you know it now .
i shall.
quickly, hurry, hurry.
lend me a garter.
what’s wrong ?
damn it ,  who’s there ?
it is very necessary that we forget to pay ourselves what we owe to ourselves.
my mother, dying, gave it to me, and asked me, when my fate would have me marry, to give it to my wife.
let’s go offer up our lives
how do you get along now ?
control this anger !
give me my robe ,  because i’m going .
never !
what we avoid when the mighty gods dictate how things go ?
have i lost my wit ?
no eyes in your head til there’s money in your wallet ?
but my hair looks good anyway ,  doesn’t it ?
please ,  i’m asking you ,  go ahead and get back to your state affairs .
well ,  we almost fought and then realized that we had reached the seventh cause .
damn you !
yes ,  on my honor .
listen ,  sad friends ,  though the gods may rebuke me ,  this news would make kings cry .
well, i am standing water.
how could that happen ?
if that’s what you want ,  all right .
who's there?
i tell you ,  captain ,  if you look at a map of the world ,  i’ll bet you will find ,  comparing macedon and monmouth ,  that the situations ,  see ,  are very similar .
what happened ,  sir ?
lend me your handkerchief .
well ,  then ,  be brave and pretend to be a man .
watch him carefully ,  because i will have my eyes riveted on his face ,  and ,  after the play ,  we will combine our observations in condemning of his actions .
but what danger we’ll put ourselves in ,  two young ,  innocent women traveling so far !
picture the cabin boys climbing around the rigging .
i don’t know ,  madam .
he leaves me to my own contentment ,  but that’s the one thing i cannot find .
go back again ,  to be beaten home again ?
you slander her ,  you devil .
i laugh at any weapon used by a man who was born from a woman .
forgive me ,  your grace .
yes, on the front.
i have never been so weary ,  never so sad ,  wet from the dew ,  and torn with briers; i can’t crawl any further .
just tell his faults so quaintly that they may seem to be the stains of freedom, the flash and outbreak of a fiery mind, a savageness in wild blood, an attack that everyone goes through.
tell me anything you remember .
they say that this town is full of deception—illusionists that can fool the eye ,  dark sorcerers who can bewitch your mind ,  soul - killing witches who can disfigure your body ,  disguised swindlers ,  fast - talking fakers ,  and all kinds of other unchecked sins .
we can’t all be masters ,  and not all masters should be followed .
you can figure out the rest .
and she is very smart .
o ,  there are actors that i have seen perform and heard others praise ,  and highly too ,  not to speak too harshly ,  that ,  having neither the accent of christians ,  nor the walk of a christian ,  a pagan ,  or a man ,  have so strutted and yelled that i have thought some of nature's hired help had made them and not made them well ,  they imitated mankind so dreadfully .
i’m dying to hear your life story ,  which must be a strange tale .
grab his sword from him .
did it go to sleep it off ?
oh ,  cassius ,  i’ll run far from this country to where no romans can find me .
what’s your name ,  friend ?
what form?
unable to be lived on and almost out of reach,— still— still— he couldn’t resist it.
is it possible?
welcome ,  traveler .
what stunning ,  exquisite ,  and unmatchable beauty—but please ,  tell me if you’re the lady of the house ,  because i’ve never seen her .
she says all the right things ,  but the dumbest brothel - keeper would tell the same story .
why ,  goodbye ,  portia .
you only have say to me what i should do that you think i can do ,  and i am committed to it; so ,  ask me .
your servants are waiting .
i believe drink gave you the lie last night.
now, when the bridegroom comes in the morning to wake up from your bed, there you are, dead.
i’ll knock your teeth out ,  sir .
where are lysander and fair hermia?
what's here ?
and ,  sowing the seeds of it in the ocean ,  create more islands .
villainous whore!
you gave that handkerchief ,  the one i loved and gave to you ,  to cassio .
i agree, and then is death a benefit.
my name's macbeth .
no ,  indeed ,  my lord .
a sail ,  a sail ,  a sail !
i don’t care what you think of me .
i’ll hear brutus speak.
only he rides well ,  and his great love of us ,  as sharp as his spur ,  has helped him to get to his home before us .
tell him to gather together the greatest army he can muster in a hurry and meet me right away at salisbury .
how the sailing ship leaves her native port like a youngster or a spendthrift hugged and embraced by the prostitute wind !
i have lost my hopes .
with all my heart ,  sir .
o woeful day !
or is he walking ?
how’s it going ?
i cannot tell.
i’ll hear cassius ,  and compare their reasons ,  once they have all been told .
yes ,  i will .
the king's in bed.
what else did you hear ?
i will .
when we see that our betters have the same problems we do ,  we can almost forget our own misery .
here .
ho ,  guildenstern !
sweet, so do i.
so stop crying .
who can control his fate ?
damn your wine !
what do you say then about falconbridge ,  the young baron of england ?
in your own kitchens you act like wildcats .
foolish dogs ,  blindly running straight toward a russian bear only to have their heads crushed like rotten apples .
since this fortune falls to you ,  be content and seek no other new one .
who is he that follows there, the one who wouldn’t dance?
my reputation, iago, my reputation!
one more thing ,  sir .
by heaven, i'll know you’re thinking.
you’re my lieutenant now .
he’s staying in the forest with your father now .
you .
a skull ,  whose empty eye has a written scroll in it !
look !
caesar ?
i'll make you quiet.
the law!
don’t swear at all .
let me be cursed if i marry again!
with him!
i have to ask you ,  as a favor ,  not to let on that you recognize me until the time is right .
in this way ,  the candle has burned the moth .
with him !
for if the sun breeds maggots in a dead dog ,  being a god - kissing rotten flesh— have you a daughter ?
we say the king is wise and good ,  and his noble queen is getting old ,  pretty ,  and not jealous .
my strength is all gone ,  as if in a dream .
the more fool you for betting on my loyalty .
i have sworn it .
o hamlet ,  you cut my heart in two .
no one but a holy hermit and her maid.
good macbeth ,  we’re ready when you are .
yes ,  that's certain .
who can say i’m evil when my advice is so good ?
they let god see things they wouldn’t show their husbands .
have you snuck over here to watch the wrestling ?
stop ,  for god’s sake !
this is the prophecy that the wizard
leave them alone ,  and do the murder first .
throw medicine to the dogs, i'll have none of it.
love's heralds should be thoughts ,  which glide ten times faster than the sun's beams ,  driving back shadows over lowering hills .
you’ll remain a prisoner until we bring your crimes to the venetian government . —okay ,  take him away .
you look too much like the ghost of banquo .
pretend to be very concerned about both the prince ,  who has compromised his honor by making the match ,  and claudio ,  whose reputation will be ruined by this woman who’s pretending to be a virgin .
our closest relatives are the ones most likely to murder us .
go away !
so goodbye ,  my lady .
believe me ,  i’m sorry you’re in pain .
a conclusion ,  a conclusion: he is in love .
oh ,  this is terrible !
my god !
please give it to me.
i am satisfied in nature ,  whose motive ,  in this case ,  should move me the most to my revenge .
that’s all i wanted to know .
he’s a very proper man .
why was i born to this keen mockery ?
but the enemy is loud .
the reasons for a second marriage are low respects of saving money, but not for love.
the sound is going away .
a man who can tell the future is telling you to beware march 15.
you know that all my funds are invested in ships at sea; i don’t have the money or goods to raise such a large sum; so, go out, see what my credit in venice can do for you, credit that shall be stretched, even to the outer limits, to supply you for your trip to belmont to beautiful portia.
is your master awake ?
small but brave in his surroundings ,  he’s trying to stand up against the wind and rain blowing back and forth .
shall we to the court ?
every month he has a new best friend .
oh, damn you, stubborn dog!
come sit on me .
eventually, as patient as the female dove when that her golden twins are discovered, his silence will sit drooping.
well ,  tell me now about the lady ,  the one you swore to make a secret trip to ,  the one you promised to tell me about today ?
go and tell my daughter i want to speak with her .
let each man give me his bloody hand.
death is my heir .
are we betrayed before we have deserved it ?
thursday is coming .
i only partly believe it ,  for i’m enthusiastic and resolved to meet all dangers without wavering .
i’ve stayed too long.
i am very happy he wasn’t at this fight .
bring ink and paper ,  charmian .
as shafalus to procrus, i am to you.
yeah ,  while you’re alive ,  you’ll only draw your neck out of the hangman’s collar .
you talk to him ,  ma'am .
i’m not one of his sluts .
attack the breach in the city wall once more ,  dear friends ,  attack it once more—or else let’s close it up with english corpses .
unless my horse goes faster than expected ,  i will be back an hour or two after sunset .
let’s go forth ,  dear countrymen .
god’s bodkin, man, better.
yours ,  if we’re talking about  i’m leaving .
i don’t like him ,  and it doesn’t seem to be safe to us to let his craziness run free .
that’s true: who gets up from a feast with the same hunger that he had when he sat down ?
what’s the matter there?
stay with us tonight .
don’t refuse the love we offer you .
but now i must condemn it .
i’m afraid he will beat me .
yes ,  if a woman grows up to be a man .
it’s time to reassess the situation .
nothing.
he is the jewel ,  indeed ,  and gem of the whole nation .
yes ,  kind sister .
do you lie so low ?
can i do what all the parthian arrows ,  though shot by enemies ,  could not ?
i am glad about it: i don’t want anything more than to get sailing and be gone tonight.
tybalt, mercutio, the prince has expressly forbidden this fighting in verona streets.
and you have mercy too !
speak .
where have you been hiding ?
there is siward's son and many youths without beards which now affirm they are beginning manhood.
i commend my duty to your lordship .
i felt like skipping school ,  sir .
well ,  it doesn’t matter .
all right ,  then .
i’ll go to him .
alas ,  poor yorick !
who has a breast so pure that some unclean thoughts keep court records and legal holidays, and sit in session with lawful deliberations?
honest, my lord!
will you have dinner with me tonight, casca?
right now you swear to me that you are a virgin; if you were a poet ,  i might have some hope you were lying .
let him do his worse .
kiss her soft mouth ,  and we’ll be off .
are decius brutus and trebonius there?
he bears himself like a portly gentleman; and, to say truth, verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well-governed youth.
no, you'll reveal it.
it’s strange ,  my theseus ,  the story that these lovers speak of .
don’t your discreet heart think it .
it ‘s a pity of him.
o very lame and powerless conclusion !
do your best .
cheer up ,  antonio !
you sound like a cattle dealer: that’s the way they sell bulls .
another case: hugh capet ,  who usurped the crown from charles the duke of lorraine—sole male heir in a direct line from charles the great—passed himself off as heir to lady lingare ,  daughter of charlemagne ,  who was the son of lewis the emperor (who was the son of charles the great) ,  in order to give his claim to the throne more validity (though ,  in fact ,  the claim was completely false and worthless) .
if you thought that you’d be thinking too much .
my mind is too great for that .
who’s next?
yes ,  my lord ?
they are crying and moaning over tybalt’s corpse .
if you can get his wife ,  you do yourself a pleasure ,  me a sport .
speak my thoughts ?
well, keep me company for only two more years, and you’ll never know the sound of your own voice.
no, that doesn’t follow.
fly ,  my lord ,  fly !
beat them down !
my lord ?
fix your example ,  shepherd .
lysander riddles very prettily.
because ,  if you must know ,  she’s been chosen by signior gremio .
where's satisfaction?
meet with the ambassadors .
of her father .
what men have you lost ,  fluellen ?
why did you leave the dining room ?
tell me ,  heavenly rainbow ,  if you know ,  if venus the goddess of love or cupid ,  her son ,  now wait on the queen ?
and now he’s gone .
here’s the money you asked me to hold .
ah sir !
hamlet !
i have sworn it.
a bit of a hurry ,  my lord !
how much does he owe the jew ?
why, jessica!
yes ,  madam .
enough .
what did popilius lena say?
when could they say, until now, those that talked about rome, that her wide walls were ruled by only one man?
and in her eyes i see a fire that would seem to burn away the lies the princes have told about her chastity .
what wicked request did brutus make to you?
what do you say?
so every holy spirit help me ,  as i have spoken all my best for you ,  and stood shocked at his displeasure over my free speech !
are you acquainted with the difference of opinion that is the present question before the court ?
with this strange virtue, he has a heavenly gift of prophecy, and various blessings hang about his throne, that say he is full of grace.
no, good lieutenant; i beg you, sir, stop.
what is your name ?
who brought it out here ?
a thing for me!
which one of you killed the deer ?
the more i love him ,  the more he hates me .
no ,  nothing but ourselves .
a sail, a sail, a sail!
what do you want?
and meet me before the first rooster crows at dawn .
in which predicament ,  i say ,  you stand; because it appears by this obvious proceeding that indirectly ,  and directly too ,  you have schemed against the very life of the defendant; and you have incurred the danger that i just read to you .
i am glad this batch of would-be husbands are so reasonable; because there isn’t one of them that i am not foolishly in love with his very absence, and i pray god grant them a fair departure.
stephano !
what do you think about the scottish lord ,  his neighbor ?
have you sent someone to bottom's house ?
you have my consent .
this ring ,  sir—oh no ,  it’s nothing .
we’ll go together ,  and before we’ve spent all the savings of your youth ,  we’ll find a way to make a living .
mark antony, here, take caesar's body.
there's something in his soul over which his depression sits like a bird on an egg ,  and i doubt that egg will hatch and the  “ bird ”  will be something dangerous ,  which to prevent ,  i have quickly decided to write it down like this .
emperor caesar ,  dead and turned to clay ,  might stop a hole to keep the wind away .
but ,  pity the time !
it’s time for you to know the whole story .
will you have dinner there ?
what news do you have ?
i know a lady in venice would have walked barefoot to palestine for a touch of his lower lip.
here, bashful cunning!
o antony ,  don’t beg your death from us !
here’s another, more potent than the first.
my honorable ,  reverend master ?
here .
wake up and see yourself.
i don’t understand what you mean by this .
please forgive and forget .
his most horrible murder .
go to my brother cassius .
i am as i have spoken.
heaven bless the isle of cyprus and our noble general othello!
listen to our horses neighing ,  longing to be working .
while you lie here snoring ,  open - eyed plotting takes his time .
aside .
but a stronger pity ,  for the wrongs committed against rome ,  drove out our pity for caesar ,  as fire drives out fire ,  and so we killed him .
go on, and don’t leave any ritual out.
me too ,  lord !
hush ,  grumio .
but don’t keep wondering without more proof .
they killed your wife ,  your children ,  your servants ,  anyone they could find .
can anything be made out of this ?
think ,  my lord !
here are more of us.
don’t hear it ,  duncan ,  for it is a sorrowful omen of death that summons you to heaven or to hell .
one sorrow walks on the heels of another ,  following too fast .
i know his walk; it is he.
the devil damn you black ,  you cream - faced loon !
but you still wish the gods had made me poetical ?
beat them down !
i say my prayers out loud .
you are to die .
in that case ,  he’s more obliged to you than i am .
my blessing instill these things in you!
while you’re moving around and you are hot and dry ,  since you’ll make your bouts more violent to that purpose ,  and he calls for drink ,  i’ll have prepared a goblet for him for that purpose ,  so that even only sipping ,  if he escapes your stick of venom by luck ,  we can be successful this way .
now ,  balthazar ,  you’ve always been honest and faithful to me ,  and i trust you still are .
oh i wish your frowns would teach my smiles to have that effect !
what ,  my lord ?
please, go on.
behold ,  the chests stand there ,  noble prince: if you choose the one that i am contained in ,  our marriage vows will be solemnized right away; but if you fail ,  my lord ,  you must be gone from here immediately without any more talking .
help me into some house, benvolio, or i shall faint.
is it a weakness ?
damn your mistress !
a right fair mark ,  fair coz ,  is the first hit .
that’s the truth .
whenever you’re ready ,  hostess .
out of the frying pan and into the fire—from a tyrant duke to a tyrant brother !
i have forgotten why i called you back .
admit you were wrong .
and he’s not going to do any tomorrow .
othello!
go up there and second his petition .
the tyrant has not taken action against them ?
this is a bad joke of theirs to frighten me .
i am too old to be engaged to someone so young !
lepidus is red in the face .
you’re on your deathbed .
i don’t know .
i feel better already ,  and i know there’s more good advice where that came from .
my dear son is too familiar with such sour company .
this fellow might have been a great buyer of land in his time ,  with his statutes ,  his emblems ,  his fine art ,  his double billing ,  his house seizures ?
i really like the work.
i could be sad if i wanted to be .
i agree ,  his means of death ,  his obscure burial ,  no trophy ,  sword ,  no coat of arms over his bones no noble rites or state funeral ,  cry to be heard ,  from heaven to earth as it were ,  that i must call it into question .
he looks like a flattering tax collector !
oh wicked wall, through whom i see no bliss, cursed be your stones for deceiving me like this!
i’ll be nice to him .
you’ll find beatrice there ,  talking to claudio and the prince .
even for a  good morning ,  lieutenant .
don’t tire yourself out ,  monsieur .
did you hear the news that’s going around ?
o most bloody sight!
please tell him i have surrendered to his fortune .
demetrius doesn’t think so; he won’t know what everyone but him knows .
your words suit you as your wounds do; they both tell of honor .
get up and listen to me .
here lies hero ,  the heroic maiden killed by slanderous words .
what, pindarus!
is it true?
stay and speak !
it’s women crying ,  my good lord .
i never hurt you .
i don’t know what  “ poetical ”  means .
oh ,  one child is one too many !
dromio ,  you drone ,  you snail ,  you slug ,  you idiot !
this hill is far enough.—look, look, titinius; are those my tents on fire?
good friends ,  i thank you all for coming to see me wed this patient ,  sweet ,  virtuous wife .
with any luck ,  the sea and new countries will push out these thoughts that have somehow taken root in his mind .
some word there was ,  worse than tybalt's death ,  that murdered me .
i'll go around and drive the low people away from the streets; you do this too ,  where you see many of them gathered together .
metellus cimber ?
come, give us a bit of your quality.
if you dare to fight today ,  come to the field .
no ,  sir ,  she shall not ,  although you take her side .
why ,  so i can ,  sir ,  but i won’t now .
he knows no more about the proper practice of war ,  see—the ancient practices—than a puppy .
i am too sore from being pierced with cupid’s shaft to soar with his wings; and so wounded ,  i cannot jump even a little bit above dull woe .
if true lovers are always thwarted ,  then it must be a rule of fate .
impudent prostitute !
maybe, iago, i will never go home.
i will ,  my liege .
yes ,  if a woman lives to be a man .
if i’m going be killed ,  there is no time like caesar's death - hour ,  or any instrument half as worthy as your swords ,  decorated richly with the most noble blood in this whole world .
i hope she keeps it short .
we are men ,  my liege .
let me go ,  i say .
have we turned to turks ,  and do to ourselves what heaven has forbidden the ottoman ?
we'll rebel.
the demon who seduced you could stride the world over with the proud gait of a lion ,  could return to hell and tell the devil’s legions ,   “ i will never win another soul as easily as i won that englishman’s .  ”  how you have poisoned my faith in people !
what ,  dares the slave come hither ,  covered with a mask ,  to sneer and scorn at our feast ?
you need to sleep .
if you lie ,  boy ,  we’ll have you whipped .
yes ,  i do .
if that’s true ,  which it is ,  she might as well be in love with a dream ,  the poor lady .
your mother was extremely virtuous ,  and she said you were my daughter .
this is a sleepy tune .
was i with you there for the goose?
drink up .
i work for titania ,  the fairy queen ,  and organize fairy dances for her in the grass .
good night.
i have an interest in your hate's proceeding, my blood for your rude brawls lies there bleeding; but i'll punish you with so strong a fine that you shall all repent my loss.
damn !
i think so too.
i thought i lay worse than in a rebellion ,  in the chains .
i’ve come to take you to the senate house .
but no more spooky visions ! —where are the messengers ?
her eyes are saying something .
i am not valiant either, but every puny man with a whip gets my sword.
she’s gone forever .
for besides the good news ,  we are also celebrating his marriage .
i do .
o ,  what a idle ,  wandering ,  and peasant slave i am !
i think i hear the drums far away .
you lie .
my dear lord ,  please tell me the cause of your grief .
oh brave touch !
you’re now within a foot of the cliff’s edge .
i’ll take you to where he sleeps ,  and you can pound a nail into his head .
he has ,  and many more just like him that i know the worthless age dotes on ,  are only part of a craze and have the outward appearance of style ,  a kind of swollen collection ,  which carries them through and through the most airless opinions and only blows them to their real experience when the bubbles are burst .
you speak your whole part all at once, cues, and all.—pyramus enter.
everyone knows that when you pour a drink out of a cup and into a glass ,  the cup becomes empty .
behold, the chests stand there, noble prince: if you choose the one that i am contained in, our marriage vows will be solemnized right away; but if you fail, my lord, you must be gone from here immediately without any more talking.
romeo ,  there dead ,  was husband to that juliet; and she ,  there dead ,  was romeo's faithful wife .
can you hear me ?
because everything is sealed and done that relies on this affair.
no ,  i’ll walk right next to you ,  side by side .
thanks for your pains .
oh ,  just lies ,  sir .
it hangs like an old worn - out mop .
regan ,  i hope you didn’t know anything about that . —ah ,  who’s this ?
iago has orders on what to do; but ,  nevertheless ,  with my own eyes i will look to it myself .
your “love” is lying there.
cassio  she’s awake ,  sir .
take this mad wretch to jail . —father - in - law baptista ,  will you see that he’s available to appear in court ?
the less they deserve it, the more credit it is to you.
come here ,  good volumnius; listen to a few words .
some man or other must look like a wall, and let him have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast cement around him to signify the wall, and let him hold his fingers open like this, and through that cranny, pyramus and thisbe will whisper.
my spells are working well ,  my spirits are obeying me ,  and everything is right on schedule .
put out the light, and then put out the light.
what is a traitor ?
if it’s for me ,  don’t keep it from me .
since you give me so much trouble, let me remind you what you have promised, which is not yet done for me.
yes ,  my good lord .
right over to that  i hope he enjoys her .
you fools !
and your father was duke of milan ,  and you were his heir ,  a princess .
do you know where i’m going ?
i'll come to you in a minute.
the man hasn’t done anything wrong .
madam ,  i wish it may .
yes.
i was afraid of this ,  but i thought he had no weapon; he was great of heart .
how does it go with my magnificent mark antony ?
you come from heaven ,  don’t you ?
i see these lords so much admire at this meeting that they eat their own common sense ,  and scarcely think their eyes tell them the truth .
what does this mean ,  that you ,  dead corpse ,  again in full armor ,  revisit us in the light and shadows of the moon ,  making night hideous ,  and making us fools of nature shake our dispositions so horridly with thoughts that go beyond the reaches of our souls ?
you’d be the funniest person in illyria… if sir toby ever stopped drinking .
i’ll prove that i’m an honest man and a man of honor if you dare defend yourself .
but if the gods themselves saw her then ,  when she saw pyrrhus make malicious sport by chopping her husband’s limbs with his sword ,  the instant burst of noise that she made ,  unless mortal events can’t move them at all ,  would have made the burning eyes of heaven milk ,  and rouse passion in the gods .
a rogue teaching me my duty!
i’m not sad ,  my lord .
his words were ,   “ goodbye ,  mistress ,  ”  nothing else .
the more i love him, the more he hates me.
the government of a king dies with him, but draws what's near it with it, like a gulf.
well ,  let’s hope your good fortune continues !
damn ,  damn you ,  prostitute !
why ,  that’s my dainty ariel singing now .
they laugh that win.
farewell; because i must leave you.
how the man jowls it to the ground, as if it were cain's jawbone, that did the first murder!
didn’t you hear a cry?
what do you wish ?
death, that has sucked the honey of your breath, has had no power yet on your beauty.
as for this slave ,  iago ,  if we can think of any torture that will hurt him a lot but keep him alive a long time ,  he’ll have it .
each of you ,  give me your bloody hand .
and that necklace around his neck is the very one he swore he didn’t have !
o ,  he dismounts too .
i’ll show you where to get fresh water .
what part of her body is ireland ?
no ,  you won’t get a word out of me .
we have to take the king’s side .
i shouldn’t need to ,  if you were acting like gentle brutus .
a good and virtuous nature may recoil in an charge by a king .
you’re wearing dancing shoes with nimble soles .
that i can keep your advice, and not my own.
nor living ones ,  i hope .
this lion is a very fox for his courage.
this toast is for lepidus !
there's none ,  or little of that .
think about it .
stand farther away.—come on, continue.
will you pull your sword out of its sheath ?
i’m here ,  my lord .
i think the marriage was made more for political reasons than for love .
cassio’s a handsome man .
it can only mean that you have murdered him; a murderer should look like you ,  so dead ,  so grim .
if there is a man like that ,  heaven pardon him !
so how can anyone say i’m alone ,  when the whole world is here to look at me ?
as moral as me !
where are you ?
how ,  in stripping it bare ,  you invest more in it !
wake up ,  wake up !
somebody’s knocking .
i’m not proud that you have ,  but i’m thankful that you have .
always give him his way .
i sent dromio to you with money for bail ,  but i don’t think he brought it to you .
no ,  you must see them as your father sees them .
don’t say that, lysander, don’t say that.
tell him, if it pleases him come to this place, he shall get an explanation and, by my honor, leave here safely.
is love a tender thing ?
find the girl!
go on, i’ll follow you.
haven’t you read, roderigo, of some such thing?
this is a sorry sight .
swear you won’t .
have you come to make confession to this father?
what’s wrong, horatio?
ha !
control this anger!
her eye must be fed ,  and what joy will she have to look on the devil ?
lead us ,  monster; we’ll follow .
but tell me ,  egeus .
i will read it.
therefore ,  every soldier should do as any man who is sick in his bed would do: clear his conscience of any stain .
here comes the emperor .
go inside ,  and tell my mother that i’m going to lawrence' cell to make confession and be forgiven because i’ve made my father so angry .
he trusts me well ,  the better my plan will work on him .
oh no ,  sir ,  i won’t let him go ,  sir ,  not without a good reason .
please ,  look in .
only don’t be afraid to take upon you what is yours .
here the painter plays the spider in her hair, and has woven a golden mesh to capture the hearts of men faster than gnats are caught in cobwebs: but her eyes!— how could he see to do them?
it looks better in a king than his own crown looks on him .
those are her orders .
these tedious old fools!
it’s a good thing you’re not a piece of fish .
i won’t listen to your pleas or excuses .
what a storm !
away !
lepidus flatters both of them ,  as they flatter him ,  but he doesn’t love them ,  and they don’t love him .
let me help you up .
freely tell her the truth; beg her help to put you in your place again .
do you ?
could beauty, my lord, have better dealings than with sincerity?
not offensive at all .
there lies that same tybalt .
your name ,  please ,  friend ?
if my horse doesn’t ride better ,  i must become a borrower of the night ,  for a dark hour or two .
please ,  give it to me .
no ,  some of it is about my child’s father .
if i told you i understood greek ,  i’d be lying .
but if you return, jealous, and try to find out what i intend to do, by heaven, i will tear you limb from limb, and scatter your limbs all over this hungry churchyard!
as
that's one of them.
it was of some nobility .
i spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck.
when you hold up your hand that pure congealed white top ,  high taurus' snow ,  fanned with the eastern wind ,  turns to a crow .
is that the law?
oh ,  traitors ,  villains !
i’ll read it . —it looks so unlike portia !
scurvy knave !
call that servant back .
heaven knows what secrets she’s keeping .
i often wander around in the woods like a forest ranger until the sun rises in the fiery red sky over the ocean ,  turning the salty green water to gold .
how is my lord ?
i’m going to forget my duties to you a little bit and complain about the injuries you’ve caused me .
they’re the rebels . —o conspiracy ,  shame on you for showing your dangerous eyes by night when evils are most free ?
i’ll use it for fish bait .
and then the lion vanishes.
good evening ,  good evening .
biondello ,  go and tell your mistress to come to me .
o god !
tybalt, the reason that i have to love you does excuse very much the rage that is appropriate for such a greeting.
why ,  what is there to do before i get there ?
because ,  even if you only shine your grey light one time ,  i'll find demetrius ,  and revenge this spite .
a fine ship ,  with some good people in it ,  i’m sure ,  smashed to pieces .
joy except my love for you ,  and i find that only your majesty’s love makes me happy .
brother ,  duke ,  please have some food .
a lioness has given birth in the streets; and graves have opened up and given up their dead; fierce fiery warriors fight on the clouds, in ranks and squadrons and right forms of war, which drizzled blood on the capitol; the noise of battle screaming into the air, horses neighed, and dying men groaned;and ghosts shrieked and squealed around the streets.
he’ll kill me with tortures .
that might be the case sir ,
so romeo, if he wasn’t called “romeo,” would retain that dear perfection which he has without that title.
the king and queen are coming down with everyone else .
oh, sinful thought!
to all, and to him we miss, and all to all.
why are you here ?
get rid of half your knights and go back to spend the rest of your month with my sister .
i bother you too much, but you’re willing.
when he came to again ,  he said ,  if he had done or said anything out of order ,  he wanted the people to think it was his infirmity .
come in ,  tailor; here you may roast your goose .
the tunnels !
dead .
will you meet me right away at ninny’s grave ?
here comes his body, mourned by mark antony, who, although he had no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a place in the commonwealth, just as you all will.
let's meet him and greet him .
turn, hell-hound, turn!
listen, listen, someone is knocking.
o ,  the pipes .
i will speak to this fellow.
thrice noble lord ,  i beg you to excuse me for another night or two—or at least until nightfall .
go forth ,  my sword; he dies .
my pretty cousin ,  blessing upon you !
i like the morning .
but why did you leave me so unkindly ?
go get some sleep; go where you are staying .
how did she become a widow?
i will do so .
my father's spirit in arms !
what do you think of his neighbor ,  the scottish lord ?
indeed, this counselor is now most still, most secret, and most grave, who was a foolish gabby rogue in life.
you think i care what i’m called ?
hastings loved the prince’s father so much that we won’t be able to persuade him to do anything against the prince .
if it were any other… it’s only that, i guarantee it.
because i’m afraid of that ,  i still will stay with you ,  and never leave this palace of dim night again .
being a holiday ,  the beggar's shop is closed .
as sure as i’m standing here ,  i saw him .
oh god ,  whose side i think i’m fighting on ,  look kindly on my forces .
yes ,  they are .
no more!
and why are you butting in, my lady wisdom?
he has already been named king and has left for scone to be crowned .
their bodies may remain here in england ,  but their hearts are encamped on the fields of france already .
thisbe!
you ,  nick bottom ,  are set down for pyramus .
then you told a lie ,  a sick ,  wicked lie .
i went beyond what i was going to say to tell you about it.
you’ll fight with a man who’s cracking nuts just because you have hazelnut - colored eyes .
you often scolded me for loving rosaline.
you’ve described a warm friend who’s cooling off .
my cousin means signior benedick of padua .
look ,  how he laughs already !
all's well now ,  sweetheart; come away to bed .
my lord ,  there is a messenger waiting outside with letters from the doctor ,  just now arrived from padua .
i’ve hired five hundred almsmen to hold up their withered hands to heaven ,  praying for my pardon twice a day throughout the year .
they were lusting after each other .
romeo ?
i’m ready now to hear what my good cousin the dauphin has to say—for i hear that the greeting you bear is from him ,  not the king .
good morning, gentlemen.
oh ,  please do .
sweet gertrude, leave us too, for we have secretly sent for hamlet to come here, that here he may, as if by accident meet ophelia.
tie up his withered old arms .
shall i deny you ?
how are you going to live ?
i am dying ,  cleopatra ,  dying .
how is it that the clouds still hang on you?
he’s not your relative .
i have, my lord.
just send him here ,  and i’ll persuade him .
what would you do to show yourself your father's son in deed more than in words?
what do you mean i faked you out ?
the ottoman, reverend and gracious, steering with due course toward the isle of rhodes, have joined a later fleet there with them.
no ,  he’s not .
i don’t know what to think about this .
now i’m starting to pity titania for being so infatuated .
where are the thousand
like a mouse caught in my own trap ,  osric .
oh ,  i’m dead !
lover!
generous madam, whatever shall become of michael cassio, he'll never be anything but your true servant.
i have an adventurous fairy that shall seek what the squirrel has been hoarding, and get you new nuts.
when he is gone, i would like to speak with you urgently.
can i have some ?
yes, but not to die yet.
with all my heart .
how can you say these things, for shame, titania, give me a little more credit than that with hippolyta, knowing i know all about your love for theseus?
let them take it whatever way they will.
and so— ?
hamlet ,  remember me .
i stand here with the law on my side .
virtue !
you won’t play then ?
now ,  eros .
but first ,  i will release the fairy queen .
go ,  girl ,  look for a man who’ll give you happy nights at the end of happy days .
he couldn’t be a lion if the romans weren’t such easy prey .
come, go with me, read this over as you go; beautiful jessica shall be my torchbearer.
i overlooked your request ,  but i did not deny it .
peasblossom.
i am so exhausted my spirits are dulled; sit down and rest .
the count will be here soon with music ,  because he said he would .
end it ,  then ,  and everything is over . —eros ! —i’m coming ,  my queen ! —eros ! —wait for me .
god be with you.
by janus ,  i don’t think so .
some of them give me money ,  some invite me places ,  some thank me for the kind things i’ve done for them ,  some try to sell me things .
this week he was sad ,  moody ,  and depressed and very different from his usual self .
noting this poverty ,  i said to myself ,   ” if a man did need a poison now ,   ” the sale of which is punished by death in mantua ,   ” here lives a poor wretch would sell it to him .  ”  o ,  this same thought only predicted my need ,  and this same needy man must sell it to me .
i beg for justice, which you, prince, must give; romeo killed tybalt.
what do you mean by that ,  malvolio ?
and tonight ,  sir ,  i invite you have dinner with me .
i shall answer that better to the community than you can explain the swelling of the negro's belly; the moor is pregnant by you, launcelot.
look how it steals away !
it’s fair for him to treat me like this ,  very fair .
fear not, until birnam wood do come to dunsinane;" and now a wood comes toward dunsinane.
i think it’s yours indeed, for you lie in it.
for the law of writ and the liberty, these are the only men.
he’s the only worthy man in italy ,  aside from my dear claudio .
if you complain any more ,  i’ll split an oak tree and lock you up in it till you’ve howled for twelve years .
you’re my true and honorable wife, as dear to me as are the red tears that visit my sad heart.
it is strange .
isn’t it monstrous that this actor here, only in a play, in a dream of passion, could force his soul so to his own actions that his grew pale from the words of the speech, tears in his eyes, separation from reality in his face, a broken voice, and his whole function matching forms to his role?
for pity’s sake, my lord, my wife died tonight.
no ,  i have a commitment .
you must understand ,  silius ,  that it’s better to leave something undone than achieve too much fame in your superior’s absence .
and what about that ?
who is here so low thatthey would rather be a slave?
yours ,  yours .
most unholy murder has broken open the lord's anointed temple, and then stolen the life of the building.
o damned iago !
die where you have lived ,  in my arms .
give us kind keepers ,  heavens !
you are very welcome here ,  sir .
who’s stopping you?
such an expression of despair would only prove that i was guilty .
your name, sir, truly.
yes ,  and a brave one ,  who dares to look at something that would frighten the devil .
whatever we decide to do .
o scotland, scotland!
he is a worthy governor but this same cassio, although he speaks of comfort touching the turkish loss, he still looks sad, and prays the moor is safe, because they were parted with an evil and violent tempest.
you should know that to me ,  profit isn’t more important than honor ,  but the other way around .
what do you think about thursday ?
come ,  gentlemen ,  let’s discuss tomorrow’s action in my tent .
give me only one evil enemy at a time ,  and i'll fight their legions again and again .
i don’t speak yet of proof .
go, go, you answer me with wickedness.
i am .
are you her husband ,  boy ?
i’ll ask them .
my mother had a maid called barbara; she was in love; and the man she loved went crazy and left her .
don’t let me burst in ignorance, but tell me why your sacred bones, buried in death, have escaped from the cemetery, why the tomb wherein we saw you quietly laid to rest, has opened his frightening and marble jaws to bring you back to life!
i never knew a florentine more kind and honest .
my italy is full of civil war .
therefore ,  drink up . —servant - monster ,  drink a toast to me .
bassanio please ,  leonardo ,  think about this  i’ll do my best .
now what we have done so far is this.
you’ve made him so delusional he’ll go crazy when he learns the truth .
an inviting eye, and still i think it is properly modest.
you knew that my sword ,  weakened by my love for you ,  would obey that love no matter what .
i’m an ass ,  i’m a woman’s servant ,  and i’m beside myself .
only men whom you wouldn’t trust anyway would swear oaths ,  and for the worst reasons .
yes ,  madam ,  twenty different messengers .
what light breaks through that window?
i prophesied that, if a gallows were on land, this fellow could not drown.
because i’m a jew .
that’s a good one .
give in ,  sweet hermia;—and ,  lysander ,  give up your crazy claim to my future bride .
o cassio, cassio, cassio!
i love him dearly ,  and i shall continue to favor him .
let go of him ,  peasant ,  or you die !
i’ll take a look at your letter .
absolutely ,  people should be what they appear to be .
we hear our bloody cousins are living in england and in ireland ,  not confessing their cruel murder of their father ,  only filling their hearers with strange lies .
of nothing.
i ,  not remembering how i cried out then ,  will cry it out all over again: it is a moment that makes my eyes cry .
i would have been what i am even if the most virginal star in the heavens had twinkled at my conception .
go inside ,  nerissa .
a calendar ,  a calendar !
o!
but tell me why didn’t you take action against these things ,  so full of crime and punishable by death ,  as you mainly were upset by concern for your safety ,  wisdom ,  if nothing else .
well ,  if fortune is a woman ,  she's a good woman for this guy .
but why aren’t you in your shop today ?
o heavy day!
do you see this sweet sight?
here is a mourning rome ,  a dangerous rome ,  a rome not safe for octavius yet; get going ,  and tell him so .
there are still some streaks of day in the west .
trust me ,  sweet ,  out of this silence ,  i still picked out a welcome; and in the modesty of fearful duty ,  i can understand as much as if it were from the rattling tongue of saucy and audacious eloquence .
fury ,  fury !
dear love ,  goodbye !
your face ,  my baron ,  is like a book where men may read strange matters .
prison ,  my lord ?
your behavior is an insult to all women .
and he’s friendly with caesar .
i would’ve been happy if the entire camp ,  pioneers and all ,  had tasted her sweet body ,  as long as i didn’t know about it .
i remember .
all that glitters is not gold— you’ve often heard that said .
if you  “ re ”  us and  “ fa ”  us ,  you note us .
i must hear from you every hour of the day, because there are many days in just one minute.
you’re a senator !
o ,  but i fear how lost you each other ?
let me lick your shoe .
oh ,  there’s my lady !
so ,  i agree with noble buckingham—only a few should go to meet the prince .
on a night like this ,  young lorenzo swore he loved her very much ,  stealing her heart with vows of love ,  but not one vow was true .
our fears of banquo stick deep ,  and there’s a lot to be afraid of in the royalty of his nature .
for heaven's sake, help me!
my dear lord, please tell me the cause of your grief.
therefore, from your many years of experience in these matters, give me some advice now, or, look, between my will to go the limit and me, this bloody knife shall play the umpire, deciding the problem that your many years’ experience could bring to an honorable resolution.
thank the lord for alliances !
it is my duty ,  sir .
if you have lost him ,  why ,  i have lost him too .
three thousand dollars; right?
i thank you, even for that: so, please, lead me to the chests so i may try my luck.
if he is ,  that’s his problem .
my leg is cut in two .
what’s the matter?
my pretty children ,  both of you misunderstand me .
my cousin’s a fool ,  and you are too .
as a friend or an enemy ?
tell the king what you know about the battle when you left it .
good laertes, if you desire to know the circumstances of your dear father's death, is it written in your revenge that, in the gambling, you will draw both friend and foe, winner and loser?
what is she saying ,  my lord ?
hamlet ,  you have offended your father very much .
what’s your trade ,  you deceitful man ?
lead the way .
you’re a hardworking villain who’d do anything his evil mistress wanted him to .
i can do no more .
i’ll put it on anyway .
before me!
goodbye ,  my husband .
who's there ,  in the other devil's name ?
none in the world; i don’t know the man .
it’s time to hide ,  wretched margaret .
i have a man's mind, but a woman's might.
that’s not good .
he shall, sir, if it pleases him.
madam ,  i'll leave .
well, you do what’s best.
i’ll do it ,  if you help me out .
the next person to strike again dies .
most heartily i beg the court to give the judgment.
i can’t blame her .
then think about how shameful it would be for you to give in to his seductive talk and surrender your treasure chest to his greedy hands .
angels are bright still ,  though the brightest fell .
a man named iago ,  the general’s ensign .
i don’t think so .
it won’t annoy you like me ,  because it doesn’t have a voice .
sir ,  is it possible that a person could fall in love so suddenly ?
ensign ,  what’s he doing in there ?
he’s at the duke’s morning and night ,  accusing the state of harming free trade if they deny him justice .
do you have to harp on my inadequacy ?
am i dromio ?
look, he meditates.
heavens thank you for it!
bring her out ,  brother .
a deed without a name.
but ignore that .
or ,  if he wrote his mind ,  give me his letter .
by the end i will either live ,  or else i’ll restore my honor by shedding my blood .
i am your wife, if you will marry me; if not, i'll die your virgin.
romeo must not live.
cesario ,  come here .
oh ,  well .
on the platform where we stand guard ,  sir .
romeo's a dish cloth compared to him .
sir ,  i tell you we believe you’re both lying criminals .
no ,  if you can’t adjust to political changes ,  you’ll suffer for it .
tell him ,  if he comes here ,  i’ll explain everything to him and ,  on my word ,  he’ll leave unharmed .
may we do that?
i’ll arrest him .
what would you like me to do at salisbury ?
there’s protection in the theft that steals itself when there's no mercy left.
will she go now to bed?
get back to him quickly speed, and tell him what has happened.
all may be well .
oh ,  heaven help me !
a friend !
why ,  he won’t wake up till judgment day .
i did it while he was sleeping,—that is finished too,— and the athenian woman by his side, so that, when he woke up, she must, of course, be the first he saw.
o, help, ho!
they met me on the day we won the battle, and i have learned by the most perfect report that they have more in them than mortal knowledge.
so then the poles won’t be willing to defend it .
leave me .
if i had as many eyes as you’ve got wounds ,  weeping as fast as they let your blood out ,  it would suit me better than to close in terms of friendship with your enemies .
o, yes; as summer flies are in the swamps, that move quickly even with blowing.
will you please go, my lord?
i who is cruel am yet merciful; i would not have you linger in your pain .
as a favor to  i’m delighted .
but listen to me; let me guide you .
my lord ,  how are you feeling ?
i have it on me here .
why ?
i’ll get her ,  but i won’t keep her long .
come ,  get ready .
i wouldn’t have missed this even for a pension of thousands of pounds ,  to be paid by the shah of persia .
did you say all ?
are you making fun of me ?
please tell me ,  who is this man ?
so beware of my contempt ,  and keep your promise .
come.
your renowned uncle ,  duke menaphon ,  the famous soldier ,  brought me here .
is she a capulet?
doesn’t it, do you thank, become my responsibility to kill he that has killed my king, and whored my mother, push himself in between the election and my hope to be king, tried to kill me, and with such knowledge, isn’t it perfect duty to kill him with this arm?
excellent wretch!
go ,  tell the prince .
these griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
we’re in .
his letter will tell you how he’s doing .
o, it’s the same in my mistress' case, just in her case!
yes ,  cassius ,  and ,  from here on in ,  when you’re over - aggressive with your brutus ,  he'll think your mother scolds ,  and leave you alone .
othello isn’t any of those things .
horatio says it’s all in our imagination ,  and doesn’t believe a word we say about this dreaded sight ,  seen twice by us .
i do not wish to be the villain that you may think, for the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp and the rich east to boot.
it’s best that he doesn’t speak harm about brutus here.
what else ?
it is a quick lie, sir, it will go away again from me to you.
then ,  gentlemen ,  we can count on trouble .
come ,  then ,  and send his body to thasos .
we really like this news, and later when we have more time we'll read this request, answer, and think upon this business.
i’ve already slept ,  my lord .
liberty!
o heavens !
now ,  madam ,  undress and come to bed .
you could only imitate his imperfections so well if you were the man himself .
welcome ,  lady .
torture will open your lips.
first ,  peter quince ,  tell us what the play is about ,  then read the names of the actors ,  and then shut up .
since cleopatra died ,  i have lived in such dishonor that the gods despise my disgrace .
i’m sorry ,  you were saying ?
let him come forward .
it is a speck of dust to irritate the mind's eye .
gratiano ,  keep the house ,  and seize on the fortunes of the moor ,  because they fall on you .
first ,  good peter quince ,  tell us what the play’s about ,  then read the names of the actors; and so get to the point .
and if you treat us badly ,  won’t we try to get revenge ?
yes, madam.
what do you say ,  james  well ,  i don’t know what to say .
just as you got milan ,  i’ll get naples .
ha !
he who chooses me will get what he deserves .  ”  i’ll assume i deserve the very best . —give me a key for this one .
isn’t he a horrible man ?
to bed, to bed, to bed.
my dear clever ariel ,  listen carefully .
he had the front visor of his helmet up.
he’s almost late.
yes, that he was.
tell the constable that .
well ,  girl ,  you are weeping not so much for his death as for the villain who lives who slaughtered him .
i will hear that play, because nothing can ever be wrong when simpleness and duty give it freely.
won’t he ?
fair and noble hostess ,  we are your guests tonight .
why ,  what’s tybalt’s story ?
it seems to me that your voice has changed ,  and that your speech is more elegant than it used to be .
do it again, come on.
goodbye .
naked in bed ,  iago ,  and not mean harm !
no, not tonight.
you should be whipping yourself ,  since you lust after her and yearn to do the same thing for which you’re punishing her .
the sweetest honey is loathsome in its own deliciousness, and in the taste destroys the appetite.
oh god ,  remember to hear her prayer for them ,  just as for us !
oh ,  i thank my lucky stars ,  i’m so happy .
goodbye, i'll be a better talker by dinner.
ask your daughters for another one .
that i loved the moor to live with him, my downright violence and storm of fortunes may shout to the world.
then leave him out .
i beg you, leave.
now ,  roderigo ,  where did you see her ? —oh ,  that miserable wretch ! —you say you saw her with the moor ? —oh ,  who would want to be a father ? —how did you know it was her ? —to think she tricked me so easily ! —what did she say to you ? —get me more candles ,  and wake up all my relatives .
i think there should now be a huge eclipse of sun and moon ,  and that the frightened globe should yawn at changes .
come in, who ever is out there!
shall i come down ?
go find him, speak gently, and bring the body into the chapel.
delighted to hear you ask so nicely ,  but i won’t stay in any case .
more ,  please ,  more .
was the duke of milan thrown out of milan ,  that his children should become kings of naples ?
farewell.
o, it offends me to the soul to hear a hefty fellow with a wig tear an emotion to tatters, to very rags, to split the ears of the cheap seats, who, for the most part, are capable of nothing but confusing pantomime and noise.
lieutenant cassio will be on guard duty tonight .
come, my spade.
cleopatra— do you think there ever was ,  or could there ever be ,  a man such as the one i dreamed about ?
to cut his throat in the church .
commend me to your daughter.
to tell you where he lives is to tell you where i lie.
she weeps excessively about tybalt's death ,  and because of that ,  i haven’t talked a lot about love ,  because the goddess of love doesn’t smile in a house of tears .
what if she is beautiful and foolish?
all right ursula ,  as beatrice arrives ,  we’ll be walking up and down this alley and speaking about nothing but benedick .
doesn’t  “ rosemary ”  and  “ romeo ”  begin with the same letter ?
that is done too ,  sir ,  only 'cover' is the word .
yes ,  my lord .
my master is being difficult .
i like this one.
why ,  man ,  i saw bassanio sailing away; gratiano has gone along with him; and i am sure lorenzo is not on their ship .
ah ,  this place is too cold to be hell .
whose tongue ?
now here's another unhappy document ,  found in his pocket too; and this ,  it seems ,  that roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain; but that ,  very likely ,  iago in the meantime came in and satisfied him .
therefore tell me the dauphin’s mind frankly and without constraint .
come ,  come .
sir ,  i beg you to come home with me to dinner .
being in the city was better for them in regards to their reputation and their profits .
yes, a thousand times.
no, none that you have sense enough to make.
no.
don’t you think so ?
here ,  madam:     translate .
so let’s see it .
oh ,  hell !
let me see now, to get his place, and to congratulate myself in double trickery, how, how?
i'll tell you what you shall do.
are you a man?
at different times)] listen ,  listen !
then there’s still a chance .
i’ll bury you in a magnificent grave .
when he comes back from hunting ,  i’m not going to speak to him .
you can decide that privately .
look, here it is.
they shout for joy .
when i like the way you look ,  for god forbid your face be as ugly as your mask !
no, my good lord, it’s only foolishness, but it is such a kind of misgiving as would maybe trouble a woman.
will it be in thunder ,  lightning ,  or rain ?
lead them inside .
then have your servants bring him out .
eat where you can, you won’t live with me.
don’t you have one word of joy ?
trinculo ,  if you trouble him any more in his tale ,  by this hand ,  i will displace some of your teeth .
we chase everything in life more excitedly than we actually enjoy it when we get it .
i’ll teach you a lesson .
who now owes the price of his dear blood?
my lord ,  your promise of the earldom— richmond !
look ,  sir .
he does indeed show sparks of something like wit .
so be it .
i see ,  sir ,  you are free in making offers; you taught me to beg first ,  and now i think you teach me how to answer a beggar .
come with me and let me advise you .
so is the most difficult loss.
should you do so ,  my lord ,  my speech should fall into such vile things that my thoughts are not aimed at .
i think it was at sea .
i’m going to tell desdemona my feelings .
o me ,  what have you done ?
i’d like to get to know you better ,  mr .  cobweb .
the brain may come up with laws to control society, but one hot temper jumps over a cold law; madness the youth is just such a jumper, skipping over the nets of good advice the cripple.
didn’t you tell me that i’d be able to recognize the man by the athenian clothes he was wearing ?
go ,  hercules !
what sin committed!
lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby; lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby .
ha ,  ha !
hasn’t he, gentlemen?
or rather ,  do what you feel like doing .
this doesn’t look very much like portia !
and not one vessel escaped the dreadful touch of the rocks that can break a merchant ?
i can tell you’re furious ,  but i don’t understand what you’re saying .
but please ,  tell me: is he coming home ?
all eyes!
and with such shortened rites?
i’m going back into battle .
what ,  sir ,  not in bed yet ?
by mary, sir, by many a wind instrument that i know.
you were worn with honor .
go to sleep ,  and i will wrap my arms around you .
come ,  i’ll show you your bridal chamber .
close your curtain, love-performing night, so that rude eyes may look away, and romeo can leap to these arms, un-talked about and unseen.
go find him .
i go ,  caesar .
your wife ,  sir ,  your wife .
there he will come to know his destiny.
well ,  he’s alive .
you always know he’s got some plan that pleases him when he says good morning with such gusto .
don’t you have any word of joy?
o, my good lord, there's foul murders done over there!
i am the only daughter in my father’s family ,  and all the brothers too—but i’m not completely sure about that .
what do you think i’ve got on my head ?
i brought my master news of juliet’s death .
what’s going on ?
isn’t she a well - mannered young lady ?
well done ,  my bird .
time ,  you thwart my dreadful plans .
if it pleases you, something touching the lord hamlet.
i thank you .
i have been feasting with my enemy; where ,  all of a sudden ,  one has wounded me that's by me also wounded .
i wasn’t expecting you ,  and i’m not ready to receive you .
i have of late ,  but why i don’t know ,  lost all my joy ,  given up all habits of exercises ,  and indeed ,  i am so depressed that this good frame ,  the earth ,  seems to me to be a sterile outpost ,  this most excellent canopy ,  the air— look— ,  this brave sky hanging over us ,  this majestic roof divided with golden fire ,  why ,  it seems to me to be nothing but a dirty and disgusting meeting of vapors .
i have begun to nurture your career, and will labor to make the most of yourself.
not life, but love in death!
tell the actors to hurry .
what said he when he came to ?
and will he not come again?
when you weren’t at home ,  the senate sent out three different search parties to find you .
forgive us our sins !
here is a friar, trembling, sighing, and weeping.
come ,  ruin !
i am considered as fair as she is throughout athens.
oh ,  you idiot !
captain macmorris ,  i think ,  see—correct me if i’m wrong—there are not many of your nation— my nation ?
peace ,  ho ,  for shame !
as for his thoughts ,  i wish he’d think about nothing at all rather than think about me all the time .
not as happy as macbeth ,  only still much happier .
i promise .
his knights are getting out of control ,  and he himself reprimands us about every little detail .
she was too good for me .
what's the matter?
i always loved you, hermia; always kept your counsels; never wronged you; except that, because of my love for demetrius, i told him of your running away into this forest.
if you can think of any crime not yet confessed to heaven and grace ,  do it right away .
no ,  he's a flower ,  i believe ,  a very flower .
where are the wicked beginners of this fight?
and squabble ?
what a sad sight !
don’t be shy—shake hands with me .
three times today my horse stumbled and started when he looked in the direction of the tower ,  as if he hated to carry me to this slaughterhouse .
pindarus shall run far from this country ,  where no roman shall ever notice him .
get out of here !
come ,  come; lend me a light .
stop there ,  stop there .
i am your wife ,  if you will marry me; if not ,  i'll die your virgin .
the court awards it and the law authorizes it .
they are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that.
i’m not afraid of dead uncles .
what’s that supposed to mean ?
this hand of yours requires a vacation from liberty ,  fasting ,  and prayer ,  much punishment ,  holy exercise ,  because here's a young and sweating devil here that commonly rebels .
come ,  come away !
read this book ,  showing that such an exercise may colours your loneliness .
yes ,  at philippi .
we won’t go today—or any day until it’s clear that it shall be whatever time i say it is .
come here ,  ariel .
this is as strange a thing as i have ever looked on.
do your job .
i have brought the king's son ashore by himself ,  and i left him cooling off with the air that blows gently in a remote spot of the island ,  and sitting ,  his arms sadly folded like this .
farewell !
horatio ,  you are just like the man that my conversation just now praised .
but listen, i thought you said you don’t lend or borrow by charging interest.
what does romeo say?
he begs you to spare his life .
traveling from sardis ,  two mighty eagles fell on our front flag and perched there ,  eating from the hands of the soldiers who’d accompanied us to philippi .
where are these enemies ?
i swear i will— come on ,  let’s go see what happens .
but how wonderful that she should be so fond of signior benedick ,  whom she has always appeared to hate .
i tell you ,  i’m as sane as any man in illyria .
do you make fun of me?
if it pleases your majesty ,  it is the token of a man i must fight with ,  if he’s still alive .
it’s nice to see children playing well together .
you say you have news that’s old ?
this ensign of mine here was turning back; i killed the coward and took it from him .
we’re near his room now .
oh ,  rude and unthankful boy !
certainly ,  men should be what they seem .
that is laertes ,  a very noble youth .
murder, murder!
i’m very sorry i was so hard on him .
well ,  that proves she’s in love with you .
alas, my friend and my dear countryman roderigo?
what's his weapon?
clearly ,  men should not go out walking too late !
i scarcely knew you ,  uncle; there lies your niece ,  whose breath ,  indeed ,  these hands have just stopped .
my songbird ,  we have beaten them to their beds .
farewell ,  good neighbor .
i can’t report more of this matter ,  but men are men; the best sometimes forget themselves .
put your hat to its right use.
i have a wife whom ,  i protest ,  i love; i wish she were in heaven ,  so she could beg some power to change this currish jew .
remember your children as being sweeter than they actually were ,  and think of the man who killed them as worse than he is .
the morning is coming.
shall i do such a deed ?
no ,  my lord .
children are now very popular ,  and are on the common stages ,  as they call them ,  so much that many actors are afraid they cannot compete and barely dare to come there .
but ignore that.
you have absolutely abused our sex in this love talk of yours .
i am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse name.
when you fight against your country’s enemies ,  you will be paid for your efforts with your country’s wealth .
if he can manage to walk after our fight ,  i’ll never wrestle for money again .
true ,  if a fool such as yourself could find it .
come along ,  though .
i’m afraid i wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabbed caesar; i really do fear it .
not a word .
ha ,  banishment ?
i’ll be your mirror, laertes.
look ,  it’s waving me over again .
yes ,  good my lord .
how dare you talk about kindness or shame .
i chose her when i couldn’t ask my father for his advice, or didn’t think i had a father.
but i agree ,  sir ,  that we were locked out .
to breastfeed fools and make a record of a little beer .
i say he’s a dull thing ,  that caliban ,  whom now i keep as a servant .
why ,  then ,  should i cry ?
the table's full .
now ,  we go contentedly to freedom—not banishment .
while we were here guarding you as you slept ,  we heard a loud roar that sounded like bulls ,  or lions .
that’s a nice hand you dealt me .
or is it a grief owned entirely by one person ?
but i don’t remember coming here .
arms ,  take your last embrace !
good morning to you . —here the street is narrow .
no ,  i’ll slit the nose of the villain who would have sent me to jail .
i do indeed ,  my lord .
the goodness of the night on you, friends!
he received caesar’s letters ,  and he is coming .
may a plague strike both your houses .
i say, get away from me!
by heaven, you do me wrong.
let me be put to death .
you’re a natural - born philosopher !
death lies on her like an untimely frost on the sweetest flower in all the fields .
in the meantime ,  please think i am too occupied with my fears ,  as there are strong reasons to fear i am ,  and consider her innocent ,  i beg your honor .
at lovers' lies, they say jove laughs.
it’s more ,  it’s more .
i have them ready.
he and lepidus are at caesar’s house .
order them to move back .
look ,  how he gets caesar’s attention .
please, we will stand here and wait for your instructions.
shall i believe that death that has no substance is a lover, and that the lean ugly monster keeps you here in dark to be his mistress?
a bastard, crazy fellow's it was.
if i told them about this back in naples ,  would they believe me ?
i will .
the rest of my life will be nothing but bitterness .
i’d rather be a heretic than a schemer with fancy plots .
heaven knows i am .
come, go with me.
my dear miss chat - her - up ,  i look forward to getting to know you better .
and is  “ pig ”  not the same as  “ great ,  ”  may i ask ?
tell me .
hundred times .
with your permission ,  hostess .
no; i will resist such treatment until my enemy has more power to fight.
stop !
dear lady ,  welcome home .
my lord ,  no one will believe this in venice ,  even though i’d swear i saw it with my own eyes .
adieu ,  good mr .  depression .
why ,  sir ,  must he ?
they say not to go out today .
who are you ,  slave ?
i almost faint with fear.
alright ,  i will .
where's your father?
please, sir, stand up; i am sure you are not launcelot, my boy.
why ,  she’s inside .
why ,  man ?
no ,  i didn’t ,  but i did every night for the past year .
you go to friar lawrence’s cell .
cambio is transformed into lucentio .
throw her out ,  the good for nothing !
i’ll do that ,  because i have to tell my brother how you forgave him ,  rosalind .
this works out better than i could have planned.
no ,  not until thursday .
while i waited ,  i’d frown impatiently ,  and perhaps wind my watch ,  or play with my—with some expensive piece of jewelry i happen to be wearing .
i wish that were true for both our sakes !
pray heaven it is state matters, as you think, and no plot or no jealous reason concerning you.
good night .
i’d swear he wouldn’t leave it behind ,  or even take it off his finger ,  for all the money in the world .
in both my eyes, he doubly sees himself, one in each eye; swear by your double self, and there's an oath to believe.
many former friends of ours have gathered to meet the fleet and aren’t willing to beat it back .
he dined at my house; but i don’t shake because of that.
were you talking about juliet ?
o god !
beautiful and noble hostess, we are your guests tonight.
alas ,  he faints !
what do you mean ,  the seventh cause ?
i shall laugh myself to death at this puppy - headed monster .
worthy montano ,  you were inclined to be civil; the world has marked he gravity and stillness of your youth and your name is great in mouths of wisest respect .
o ill - starred wench !
my lord, you know i love you.
o, this is rebellion, you false danish dogs!
it is a lost fear; man can only rush against othello's breast, and he retires.
he’s been over there practicing how to act for the past half hour .
it’s a bet .
what you say may be true ,  because my face is not mine .
it’s time we were going.
makes no difference .
why are they running away ?
i’d rather be a squawking bird than an animal like you .
are you scared ?
if we didn’t have rational minds to counterbalance our emotions and desires ,  our bodily urges would take over .
i’d prefer to keep my mistress rather than some lame horse .
to celebrate a marriage of true love ,  and give a gift to the lovers .
at your good heart's oppression.
there's such divinity that surrounds a king, that treason can only peep to what it would do, acts little by his will.
fool ,  i’ll repay you for this favor .
good - night ,  lieutenant; i must get going to the guard .
that fortunes ,  degrees ,  and offices were not earned by corruption ,  and that clear honors were purchased by the merit of the wearer !
dromio ?
o heavy lightness!
alexas !
both myself and many other friend but he, advisor to his own affections, keeps it all to himself – i will not say how true but to himself, so secret and so close, so far from sounding and discovery, just like a flower bud bit by a worm jealous of its beauty before her can bloom and spread his sweet leaves to the air, or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
you do lie in it ,  to be in it and say it is yours .
how are you ,  roderigo ?
he’s left them to you and to your heirs forever—public pleasures in which you will be able to stroll and relax .
just now ,  my lord .
had you your sanity ,  and you persuaded me to revenge ,  it couldn’t move like this .
what is this noise ?
it isn’t daybreak yet .
but sir ,  there is no such house ,  no such maid ,  and no such men as you have dreamed up ,  like a certain stephen sly and one old john naps of greece ,  a peter turph ,  one  “ henry pimpernell ,  ”  and twenty more men of this sort—who never actually existed .
just like that, my lord.
what if she is beautiful and foolish ?
their shadows seem like a killing canopy under which our army lies, ready to surrender.
i’m an honest puck ,  and i swear that if we’re lucky enough not to get hissed at ,  we’ll make it up to you soon .
my lord ,  if you have a free moment ,  i have a message from his majesty .
is he married to cleopatra ?
his name is tyrrel ,  my lord .
then she is well, and nothing can be wrong.
which one of you is beatrice ?
but you had better get back to egypt again .
am i all alone ?
i won’t deny him anything of mine ,  including my own body and my husband’s bed .
have you spoken to him ?
we heard it very clearly .
i told him what i thought; and told no more than what he himself discovered was right and true .
please, good bassanio, tell me; and if it is, honorable, as you yourself still are, be assured that my purse, my person, my utmost ability can be used for your benefit.
wake up all my servants!
but where have you been ?
o ,  who has done this deed ?
beg that you may have permission to hang yourself; and still ,  your wealth being the penalty to pay the state ,  you haven’t got the value of a string left; so you must be hanged at the state's expense .
get going!
you gave us the slip ,  sir ,  the slip .
you would be committing a wicked sin by chiding other people for sinning ,  because you yourself have been a terrible sinner ,  as carnal in your appetites as lust itself ,  and all the swollen pustules of sin that you acquired in your freedom you now want to burst and shoot back into the world at large .
officers ,  what crime have these men committed ?
to prison until the right time of law and course of justice call you to answer.
the king ?
there go the minstrels .
at least we'll die with armor on our back .
trust me, carthage.
you know tomorrow is her wedding day .
and if you wrong us ,  shouldn’t we seek revenge ?
do you hear me, iago?
if the duke and his court agree to set aside the fine for one half of his property ,  i’m happy ,  as long as he lets me have the other half in trust ,  to give it to the gentleman who recently stole his daughter .
are you talking about young master launcelot?
there they launched us, to cry to the sea that roared at us, to sigh to the winds, whose pity, sighing back again, only did us loving wrong.
let’s join them, since our predicament is the same as theirs.
amen .
no, unpin my hair.
my lord, his majesty sent a message to you by young osric, who tells him that you will meet him in the hall.
how now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!
as a matter of fact ,  if the playwright had played pyramus and hanged himself with thisbe’s belt ,  it would have been a very good tragedy .
if you send them word you’ll not come ,  they may change their minds .
if you will take a homely man's advice, don’t be found here, here, with your little ones.
well ,  my lord .
that may be true ,  my lord .
you called, my lord?
i hear what they say about him for doing that .
o ,  their bones ,  their bones !
come help me bless this couple ,  so they will be prosperous and have many children .
i swear to you by cupid's strongest bow ,  by his best arrow ,  the one with the golden head ,  by the simplicity of venus' doves ,  by that which knits souls and favors lovers ,  and by that fire which burned dido ,  the carthage queen ,  when the false trojan ,  aeneas ,  was seen sailing away , — by all the vows that men have forever broken ,  in greater numbers than women have ever spoken , — in that same place you have described to me ,  i will meet you tomorrow ,  truly .
i would whip such honest rogues.
this caesar was a tyrant.
in faith ,  you'll be sick tomorrow because you stayed up all night ,  supervising .
nothing at all .
oh ,  beautiful and accomplished lady ,  may the heavens rain odors upon you !
plucks off my beard and blows it in my face ?
go, go, good countrymen, and, for this mistake, get all the poor men like you together, bring them to the tiber river’s banks and weep your tears into the water, until the lowest stream floods the highest shores of heaven.
why, it would be better if i cut my left hand off, and swear i lost the ring defending it.
bloody ,  inhuman villain !
i’m happy to say  “ amen ”  to that !
all i can hope for now is a share of the feast .
how she returns like the spendthrift ,  with weather - beaten sides and ragged sails ,  thin ,  torn ,  and destitute by the prostitute wind !
i am justly killed with my own wickedness .
his name’s cinna .
how do you do ,  sir .
directly, i’m going to caesar's funeral.
probably because my cousin the villain would have killed my husband .
i will go straight to visit him .
if i didn’t have a good reason to do this ,  damn me to the very bottom of hell .
even from that.
see that you are direct with him.
are we all ready ?
as long as that ?
eros ,  my young friend ,  your captain is now just like that cloud .
prepare the horses for your lady .
i’ll punish you so harshly that you’ll regret causing me this loss .
so ,  are you done ?
i cannot tell .
how every event works against me to spur my dull revenge !
you see how simple and how in love i am.
let me stand here until you remember your reason .
how did you come to be the attack of this dreamer ?
yes, there it is.
o, damn her!
to me ,  it is a prison .
someone who was always near you .
oh ,  and i know who loves him .
i'll send her to you right away, and i'll devise a plan to get the moor out of the way, that your conversation and business may be more free.
get up early tomorrow—at the sound of the lark—noble norfolk .
please ,  one of you go ask that man over there if we can buy some food off him .
i have ordered you not to hang around my doors; in honest plainness ,  you have heard me say my daughter is not for you ,  and now ,  in madness ,  being full of supper and drunk ,  you come ,  out of maliciousness to interrupt my sleep .
i’ll do it .
a man old frederick ,  your father ,  loves .
i’m out of patience .
don’t swear at all; or if you will, swear by your own gracious self, which is the god that i worship, and i'll believe you.
i’m afraid my thisbe has forgotten her promise ! —and you ,  oh wall ,  oh sweet ,  oh lovely wall ,  you stand between her father’s property and mine ,  you wall ,  oh wall ,  oh sweet and lovely wall .
i’ve got her now ,  but i’ve got god to thank for it !
if we meet macbeth’s army tonight ,  let us be beaten if we cannot fight .
oh portia ,  these are some of the worst words that ever stained a piece of paper .
listen !
that’s enough about that .
it was the day he overcame the nervii warriors .
an ugly disease afflicts the new flowers of the spring too often before they have bloomed, and in the morning and liquid dew of youth contagious shriveling is the most imminent.
i get great comfort from this fellow .
here’s romeo’s man .
damn you !
you thought about it too long ,  considering what you found there .
and therefore, as a stranger, welcome it.
then there must be no lovers in the forest ,  either ,  because they’re as good as a clock ,  marking the lazy foot of time with a sigh every minute and a groan every hour .
good gentlemen, cut him some slack, and keep his attentions on these delights.
go then; for it’s useless to look for him here when he intends not to be found .
give me the letter .
doesn’t everyone want a wife like that ?
young fortinbras, after conquering poland, gives this warlike volley to the ambassadors of england.
come, let’s go to the castle.
if he says anything against me ,  i’ll humble him ,  even if he were stronger than he is—and twenty punks like him .
at that time you can smash in his skull after seizing his books; or you can bash his skull with a log; or you can stab him in the belly; or cut his windpipe .
he is far gone, far gone!
swear by my sword .
here was a caesar !
he got there too late .
then our beggars are bodies ,  and our monarchs and outstretched heroes are the beggars' shadows .
calm down ,  gentle cousin .
ha, ha!
twenty - five ,  sir .
she might lie by an emperor's side and order him to work.
either you are really mistaken ,  or you commit these errors willfully .
the spirit is torturing me .
be quick .
you’ve only insulted yourself .
you shall not go out of your house today .
now ,  before god ,  i am so annoyed that every part about me quivers .
i see you don’t intend to part with her—or perhaps you don’t like my company .
damn her!
he has almost finished supper .
oh ,  liars can look so honest !
don’t you hope your children shall be kings, when those things that gave the baron of cawdor to me promised no less to your children?
i hear some noise within .
now ,  daughter katherine ?
what !
yes ,  he is dead .
actually ,  i should .
the duke of cornwall ,  my master and patron ,  is arriving tonight .
welcome to rome .
oh hell !
he followed you .
but you should think that we don’t come to offend ,  but with good will .
curse my very heart ,  but i think you should be happy in this second marriage ,  because it’s better than your first .
in your bad strokes, brutus, you give good words.
can’t you understand what i’m saying ?
what's the matter ?
are you picking a fight with us, sir?
the other motive ,  why i couldn’t go to a public court ,  is the great love the people of this country have for him ,  who ,  dipping all his faults in their affection ,  would ,  like the spring that turn wood to stone ,  convert his crimes to graces ,  so that my actions ,  not at all popular with the masses ,  would have reflected badly on me ,  and not be taken as i intended them .
my dearest cousin ,  i beg you ,  have patience yourself .
what's the matter ,  that you destroy your reputation like this ,  and waste your reputation for the name of a night - brawler ?
in what chapter and verse of his heart ?
i’d do anything to bring them back together ,  since i really care for cassio .
and i know that unless the law intervenes ,  it’ll be bad news for poor antonio .
lord ,  lord ,  she’ll be a happy woman .
i was afraid this would happen ,  because he was a noble ,  brave man ,  but i didn’t think he had a weapon .
be kind now and tell me some excellent fortune .
yes ,  by saint patrick ,  but there is ,  horatio ,  and much offense too .
what is going on between you ?
we ,  now at our largest ,  can only decrease .
they shall speak more, for now i am determined to know the worst by the worst means.
yes ,  we get the idea .
i have well proven it, sir.
let’s go .
the last thing he did before sending me off ,  dear queen ,  was to kiss—the last of many such kisses—this indian pearl for you .
who greets me so early in the morning ?
oh ,  noble prince ,  i can tell you everything about the unfortunate circumstances of this deadly fight .
not tonight—today .
what we promise ourselves in a fit of passion ,  when the passion ends ,  so does the promise .
this is a sorry sight.
i must go to england, you know that?
god save the king!
that’s uncivilized and unnatural !
go ,  take it away and let your master make whatever use of it he can .
briefly, i live by the capitol.
o blessed ,  blessed night !
two thousand souls and twenty thousand dollars will not settle the question of who owns this worthless land .
we’re strangers here .
it is a nipping and an eager air.
no ,  nor could the devil’s name be more frightening .
how tragic !
tell me what you want .
i’ll go ahead of you ,  sir .
please come with me .
it throbs as if it’s going to fall into twenty pieces.
yes, so, god be with you!
then we'll move our ground .
calpurnia's cheek is pale ,  and cicero looks with the same beady and fiery eyes that we have seen on him in the capitol ,  when some senators disagreed with him in a meeting .
wait for me ,  if you dare; because i know well that you are running before me ,  moving from place to place ,  not daring to stand still or look me in the face .
you’ll feel the loss ,  but not the loss of the friend you weep for .
here ,  sir !
here’s some money for you .
it’s true i heard a humming sound ,  a strange one ,  which woke me up .
i know that voice .
since you’re old and respected ,  you should be wise .
the heart won’t be reasoned with .
rub him around the temples.
if it’s not for an important purpose ,  give it back to me again .
little pitchers have big ears .
beware macduff; beware the baron of fife .
what if this cursed hand were thicker than itself with my brother's blood ,  isn’t there enough rain in the sweet heavens to wash it as white as snow ?
if you knew the reason ,  you’d understand and would urge me to go rather than stay .
you were born from a woman .
god’s bodkin ,  man ,  better .
his speech was like a tangled chain .
he was somewhere in the middle ,  between them  .   .   .
he looked to the side ,  and pay attention to what he saw then: under an oak tree—whose lower branches were mossy with age and top branches ancient and brittle—he saw a wretched beggar ,  with overgrown hair and beard ,  asleep on his back .
her
why, bride!
if i do so ,  it will be more valuable ,  being spoken behind your back than to your face .
you might have rhymed those lines.
whom you swore you would protect and defend .
and we’ll hear it .
i won’t until i’m ready .
remember me .
what ?
either my eyesight fails ,  or you look pale .
the egyptian flagship ,  the  gods and goddesses—the whole congregation of them !
before my god, i might not believe this thing without the seeing and true testimony of my own eyes.
but, look, amazement sits on your mother’s face.
why do you come?
it’s right i should be used this way ,  very right .
if you really feel that way ,  then i hope you won’t kill me .
and this weak and idle play about love, doesn’t mean any more than a dream.
oh no ,  good cassio !
music !
well ,  i will walk myself over to count paris’ house ,  to prepare him for tomorrow .
i am not in the giving mood today .
though i wish you were dead ,  i’m not going to be the one to kill you .
take him away.
no ,  you'll reveal it .
caesar ,  you are revenged with the very same sword that killed you .
this king knows ,  and you must have heard ,  how i am punished with a painful madness .
this is what it’s all about— please ,  i beg you— no ,  my lord ,  i’m comfortable like this ,  thank you .
everything that belongs to them is yours .
there you go .
what didn’t you like?
liar and slave !
it is shaped like a weasel .
his freedom is full of threats to everyone ,  to you yourself ,  to us ,  to every one .
but like i said ,  when she tasted the bitter wormwood on my nipple ,  the pretty little babe got irritated and started to quarrel with my breast .
or stole it, rather.
what's your grace's will?
and yet she cheapens herself by turning her gaze on me ,  who cut her sweet prince’s life short and made her a widow ?
none of the noble sort would so offend a virgin and try a poor soul's patience ,  all to make you laugh .
you’re poisoning my eyes .
ha !
o, break, my heart!
but i don’t remember coming here.
then surrender ,  coward ,  and we’ll put you in a freakshow ,  just like they do with deformed animals .
what do you want with her, sir?
poor birds do not fall down .
thank you .
now ,  by the world— it’s full of your ugly wrongdoings .
if that’s not enough ,  i’ll sign a contract to pay ten times that much ,  and i’ll give you my hands ,  my head ,  and my heart as security .
your darling ?
look ,  i don’t love you ,  so stop following me around .
bring me to my host ,  macbeth .
truly ,  i think they are .
i’ll reward treason with blows ,  i promise you .
when these omens all happen at the same time ,  don’t let men say  " these things have their reasons; they’re natural ,  "  for i believe they’re warning signs that predict the climate that they point to .
good .
o, that deceit should dwell in such a gorgeous palace!
do you understand the word ?
excellent.
yes, with cassio.
and does this prospect of good fortune make you happy ?
the stupidest man of these dim country-folk who acted pyramus in their rehearsal, exited from his scene and entered in a bunch of bushes, when i took advantage of him and i fixed donkey's head on his head.
what's the matter ?
good to see you ,  iago .
welcome back from mantua .
all the diseases that the sun sucks up from bogs, swamps, flats, fall on prospero and make him a disease inch by inch!
you think she gave it to cassio ?
don’t forget.
o !
now comes the lusty blood up in your cheeks, they'll be bright red instantly at any news.
it’s like this ,  general .
come away with me .
time ,  you anticipate my dread deeds .
then she was even more an angel ,  and you’re an even blacker devil !
did this happen before the king of france returned home ?
if she cannot beg, i can order.
and still i wish but for the thing that i already have.
i needn’t be ashamed of your majesty ,  god be praised ,  so long as your majesty is an honest man .
lucius ,  wake up !
deceiving me ”  is thisbe's cue .
be invisible to everyone except yourself and me .
what ,  hello !
yes ,  my lord .
i want to speak with clarence ,  and i came here on my legs .
it’s new to you .
give me an aphrodisiac ,  pharmacist .
you won’t kill me ,  will you ?
he’ll be done in time .
it is a good hand, an open one.
my letters say only seventy senators were killed ,  one being cicero .
if she was young and passionate ,  she’d move as fast as a ball .
can i go home when my heart is here?
i watched him very well.
if ever you disturb our streets again ,  you will suffer the death penalty for breaking the peace .
most rightful judge !
if you could, doctor, analyze the urine of my land, find her disease, and purge it to a sound and former health, i would praise you to the very echo, that should praise again.
in truth, you are to blame.
don’t you know he has?
the violet smells to him the same as it does to me .
listen ,  my lords— we’re in a bit of a hurry ,  leonato .
but brother anthony— don’t ,  it’s no big deal .
what in the world made you risk your reputation like this and become a street brawler ?
my poverty agrees to take it, but not my will.
why ,  revenge .
rubbish !
one bit of land will be a pillow for us both; one heart ,  one bed ,  two bosoms ,  and one trust .
you are so far ahead that swiftest way of repaying is slow to overtake you .
lord ,  we know what we are ,  but don’t know what we may be .
well ,  the difference of a horse !
welcome ,  welcome to all of you .
yes ,  desdemona .
you said she slept with cassio .
yes .
you bring your cauldrons ,  your spells ,  your charms ,  and everything else .
i have been talking with a petitioner here, a man that suffers greatly in your displeasure.
how are you ,  ophelia !
good morning ,  gentlemen .
if that’s true ,  it makes up for all the sorrows i’ve ever known .
i agree, his means of death, his obscure burial, no trophy, sword, no coat of arms over his bones no noble rites or state funeral, cry to be heard, from heaven to earth as it were, that i must call it into question.
yes ,  boy .
he’s coming ,  ma'am .
both your majesties might ,  by the sovereign power you have of us ,  put your huge request more into a command than to an entreaty .
i know she trusts you and tells you everything .
by eight o’clock.
i won’t be made a soft and dull - eyed fool ,  to shake my head ,  give in ,  and sigh ,  and surrender to christian intercessors .
don’t grieve that i am doing this for you, because here fortune shows herself more kind than is her habit: it is still her habit to let the wretched man outlive his wealth, to view an age of poverty with hollow eye and wrinkled brow; she cuts me off from the lingering repentance of such misery.
in my ignorance, your skill shall, like a star in the darkest night, be shown to its fiery advantage indeed.
if i were in england now ,  like i was once ,  and i had even a painted picture of this fish ,  every fool there would give me a piece of silver to look at it .
nor the soles of her shoe ?
don’t say that ,  my lord .
i don’t think you can ,  because then you weren’t three years old yet .
well, i must leave her company.
beauty is a witch whose spells can turn loyalty into passion .
she was too fond of her very filthy bargain .
ready ,  if it pleases your grace .
i am no sea captain ,  but ,  if you were as far away as that vast shore washed with the furthest sea ,  i would risk everything for such a cargo .
haven’t i resisted even brutus ,  begging from his knees ?
are you ready ,  sir ?
mother, goodnight.
i’ll bet my life you gave some woman the ring !
what crimes happen so early in the morning that i have to wake up before the usual time ?
not poppy, nor mandragora, nor all the drowsy drugs of the world, shall ever bring you that sweet sleep which you had yesterday.
or are you only a dagger of the mind ,  a false creation ,  proceeding from the brain oppressed by heat ?
the actors are here .
fate ,  do your work .
sweet soul ,  take care ,  take care of perjury; you are on your death - bed .
while i see living creatures, the gashes look better on them.
he’s hiding out in friar lawrence’s cell .
not this hour, lieutenant; it is not yet ten of the clock.
no one passing by ?
the law’s on my side .
follow them ,  please .
my love ,  call him back in here .
but ,  o ,  what form of prayer can help me ?
is he man enough at this point to face off with tybalt ?
where shall we meet in the morning ?
who are you talking to ?
my husband ,  then ?
if you love me then ,  sneaker away from your father's house tomorrow night; and ,  in the forest ,  three miles outside town ,  where i met you once ,  with helena ,  to celebrate a may day morning party ,  i will wait for you there .
is that true ?
this passion ,  and the death of a dear friend ,  would go far in making a man look sad .
my lord ,  what’s wrong with you ?
let’s go.
as you are to yourself.
excuse me ?
there are more things in heaven and earth ,  horatio ,  than you’ve even dreamed of .
death ,  you lie there ,  buried by a dead man .
don’t come again to ask for my ransom ,  good messenger .
they could be content to go to other places, and come down with fearful bravery, thinking that by this face to impress our minds, they have courage; but it’s not true.
i will ,  my lord .
or thorn - bushes .
here comes the prince and claudio .
where is this man ?
i will read it.
o most dear mistress, the sun will set before i finish what i must work to do.
here's our chief guest .
you know me well .
we are sent from our royal master, to give you thanks; only to bring you, announced, into his sight, not just pay you for your brave deeds.
in the mud .
dear sir ,  i pity the lady and wish—more for her sake than my own—that i was more able to help her .
will they stop working when their voices mature ?
it is the east ,  and juliet is the sun rising !
remember that you call on me today; be near me so that i may remember you .
please ,  keep it to yourself .
when i tell him he hates flatterers ,  he agrees ,  just at the moment when i’m flattering him the most .
just now a tailor showed me fabrics he bought especially for me and then started to take my measurements .
romeo!
do you think alexander the great looked like this in the earth?
he is far gone ,  far gone !
ask her to help you get back your position .
juliet wills it so.
or ,  rather ,  i’ll kill you ,  or i’ll do away with you ,  or i’ll turn your life into death and your freedom into captivity .
your friends .
answer me in a word .
if that’s true ,  i think the same thing about you .
well done !
the turks are heading for cyprus with a powerful fleet .
neither heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight .
i have never seen a day that is so disgustingly filthy and beautiful.
i will stay covered here until the last of the storm is over .
yes ,  he is dead .
nothing but to show you how a king may progress through the guts of a beggar.
he’s near death ,  and roderigo’s dead already .
his name !
finally ,  after shaking my arm a little ,  and jerking his head up and down three times ,  he sighed like it was his last breath .
that’s why i’ve begged him to come on our shift tonight ,  so that if the ghost appears he can see what we see and speak to it .
meet me right away at the harbor.
one of you, stand sentinel over there.
everything would be produced without labor ,  and would be shared by all .
yes ,  return and tell me if your master looks well ,  because he was sick when he left .
mercy ,  mercy !
will it never be morning ?
oh ,  she could sing a wild bear to sleep !
that’s impossible .
i don’t even have one to throw at a dog .
let him go, gertrude.
signior gratiano ?
and i swear to god he’s very smart .
hail !
i have a daughter .
you wouldn’t have dared to tempt him so .
i will be hanged, if some eternal villain, some busy and insinuating rogue, some scheming, lying slave, to get some job, hasn’t made up this slander, or else, i'll be hanged.
oh ,  what a relief !
this grisly beast ,  which known by name lion ,  scared away or rather frightened the trusty thisbe ,  coming first to the place by night; and as she fled ,  she dropped her shawl ,  which vile lion stained with his bloody mouth .
my first lie ever was these things i said about myself.
i’ll leave him alone .
his madness .
what, did he look like he was frowning?
if this deed were done when it is done, then it would be better if it were done quickly.
yes ,  he’s a cunning fellow indeed ,  because he doesn’t do a thing but talk about his horse; and he makes it a great attribute to his own good qualities that he can shoe him himself; i am very afraid ,  my lady ,  his mother had an affair with a blacksmith .
there’s only one body here .
enough !
it is the very mistake of the moon; she comes more nearer earth than she usually does and makes men mad.
have you not dropped from heaven ?
even if you didn’t have the power to pull me, i would still be powerless not to follow you.
i won’t be gone long .
i wish the foolish girl were married to her grave !
you see, her eyes are open.
and to see how he prizes the foolish woman ,  your wife !
one more ,  and this is the last; so sweet was never so fatal .
god and your work be praised ,  victorious friends .
my lord ,  your noble subjects are looking for you all over the camp .
meanwhile i’ll stay with regan with my hundred knights .
that it should come to this !
i have it ready for you; here it is .
with this strange virtue ,  he has a heavenly gift of prophecy ,  and various blessings hang about his throne ,  that say he is full of grace .
what’s the matter ,  do you think ?
me ,  a penny ?
nothing can be made out of nothing .
let him come in .
i hear my father coming .
spirits, which, by my magic, i have called from their borders to enact my present wishes.
curse me, but i love her heartily; because she is wise, if i can judge her, and she is beautiful, if my eyes can really see, and she is true, as she has proved herself; and so, like herself, wise, beautiful, and true, she shall be placed in my faithful soul.
no ,  that’s not true .
romeo killed him; he killed mercutio .
no .
speak .
but now we don’t have to !
now you must see that i am not guilty ,  and you must put me in your heart as a friend ,  since you have heard ,  and with a knowing ear ,  that man who killed your noble father wanted to kill me .
your lordship is right welcome back to denmark.
m ” —why ,  that’s the first letter in my name .
i’ve always had great respect for your destiny .
hunt them down .
don’t drive me crazy with curiosity ,  but tell me why your church - buried bones have burst out of their coffin ,  and why your tomb ,
o lamentable day !
i wish they had stayed !
captain ,  i have a favor to beg of you .
some whiskey, hello!
god be with you ,  sir .
sir ,  pardon me for what i am about to say .
and ,  as you said ,  and wisely it was said ,  it is proper that some beside his mother ,  since nature makes them subjective ,  should overhear the speech objectively .
or leave either: but you'll lie like dogs, and still say nothing neither.
othello’s career is over .
good heart, at what?
nor none, in my mind, now you give her up.
tomorrow you need to get more money sent to you .
bless you!
i sent the king’s son off by himself to a faraway nook on the island ,  where he’s sitting now sighing ,  with his arms crossed like this .
who would do so ?
tell us the oath ,  my lord .
my poverty agrees to take it ,  but not my will .
i have done the state some service, and they know it.
but i’m still fairly high - ranking .
it is best to marry well and die young ,  better than to be married for a long time .
such as she says my lord said i was.
he brings me freedom .
if these are true eyes in my head ,  here's a goodly sight .
cassius ,  what a night this is !
even if she lives till the end of the world ,  she’d keep burning an additional week .
here are my keys . —but why should i go ?
indeed ?
and mustardseed!
all the rest of you can leave too .
me ,   “ greedy ”  !
it’s very hot .
into my grave ?
if that is not granted ,  he reduces his requests and asks only that he be allowed to live as a private man in athens .
enough .
o ,  it is most sweet ,  when you can kill two birds with one stone .
these many men then shall die; their names are checked on the list.
if it pleases you ,  something touching the lord hamlet .
a sculptor or a painter couldn’t have screwed him up as bad as that ,  even as an apprentice .
you’re not in love either ?
what, lamb!
a pretty pathetic monster .
i take you at your word .
so let me sleep next to you .
this messenger is wise .
he’ll stay as long as i say .
if you are well pleased with this ,  and hold your fortune for your bliss ,  turn to where your lady is and claim her with a loving kiss .  ”  a gentle scroll .
yes ,  more .
deny me this, and an eternal curse fall on you!
don’t forget .
she is persuaded i will marry her ,  out of her own love and flattery ,  not out because of my promise .
no ,  the legs and thighs .
it is the lady that pyramus loves .
eat where you can ,  you won’t live with me .
then i shall bleed to death .
did you go to bed so late ,  my friend ,  that you’re having a hard time getting up now ?
nothing ,  except your true love for my lord .
when shall he come ?
our reasons are so well considered that even if you ,  antony ,  were caesar’s son ,  you would be satisfied with them .
i have nothing to say to you .
your fortitude has left you alone.
no, take my life and everything, don’t pardon that: you take my house when you take the prop that holds my house up; you take my life when you take the means by which i live.
honestly ,  i can’t .
it’s a bet!
the name of cassius honors this corruption, and, for that reason, punishment hides his head.
good rest in the meantime !
it’s gone .
what ,  ho !
everything’s fine now .
they did ,  to the amazement of my eyes ,  that saw it .
i gave him the material .
that’s very sensible ,  but you missed my sense: i meant hortensio is afraid of you .
but oh ,  how odd it is to have to ask for my child’s forgiveness !
call her to come to me .
give me a key for this, and instantly unlock my fortunes here.
the sight of them is offensive .
with all my heart ,  if you can get a wife .
let’s go back to court together ,  but
yes ,  sir ,  for three months .
i wonder in my soul what you would ask me to do that i should deny ,  or stand so hesitant about .
his youngest daughter ,  the beautiful bianca ,  is the jewel of my life ,  and he keeps her hidden away from me and other rivals for her hand .
it’s a good shilling ,  i promise you .
he comes on a wish .
we follow you, because we should and because we want to.
thanks for your trouble .
a thousand times the worse for me, to want your light!
quick!
if cleopatra hears even a breath of this ,  she’ll die immediately .
if you have any pity, grace, or manners, you would not make me such an argument.
such exercise !
with who?
o heavenly powers!
this is the way i ever make my fool my purse; because i should abuse my own gained knowledge if i would waste time with such a fool only for my sport and profit .
and then, i admit, he may do danger, at his will, with a sting that we put in him.
what do you say, james soundpost?
your wife ,  my lord; your true and loyal wife .
why did you leave your wife and child vulnerable—the most precious things in your life ,  those strong bonds of love ?
let me speak my mind ,  and i’ll rid the world of its sickness—if it will only tolerate my medicine .
now ,  whether or not he kills cassio ,  or cassio him ,  or each do kill the other ,  i gain in every way .
i guess you don’t want it .
you may think, perhaps, because she is something lower than myself, that i can match her movements.
so .
i'll read the writing.
why ,  what an ass i am !
relent ,  and save your souls .
why does the jew wait ?
we'll wait for your lordship .
her speech is nothing ,  yet the random use of it moves the listeners to collect them ,  they aim at making sense of it ,  and mix her words up fit to their own ideas ,  which ,  as her winks and nods and gestures as she speaks ,  would indeed make someone think there might be clear ,  though nothing for sure ,  yet very unhappily .
i swear to you— you have a good heart ,  and believe me ,  i’ll tell her that .
peter ,  take my fan ,  and go before me .
look where it comes again!
zounds ,  i bleed still; i am hurt to the death .
and so ,  good capulet—which is a name i love like my own name—you should be satisfied with what i say .
he’s a proper count ,  that count sugarplum ,  a sweet gentleman ,  for sure !
o, my good lord, i would speak with you!
and hell chew on his bones !
what if she is black and witty?
by the lord who raised me to this weighty post from the happy and carefree life i used to enjoy ,  i promise you i never did anything to get the king to turn against the duke of clarence .
it would please him very much if you would rely on his wealth and success to support you .
what he will do with it heaven knows ,  i don’t; i only give it to him to please him .
so ,  goodbye .
tell me ,  why did the king arrive with such a small entourage ?
ah ,  poor my lord ,  what tongue shall clear your name ,  when i ,  your wife for three hours ,  have mangled it ?
indeed, she is a very fresh and delicate creature.
and no doubt he is ,  gracious madam .
write to him from me—i’ll sign it—sending greetings and gentle good - byes .
i know you’ve that virtue, brutus, as well as i know your face.
in the meantime ,  think about how i can do you good and give you what you want .
the coroner has decided, and finds it christian burial.
does he have a good ship ?
pray god your wife doesn’t send you a worse one .
what i am, truly, is your and my poor country's to command, where, indeed, before you came here, old siward, with ten thousand warlike men already at a point, was coming to.
they deserved to keep their heads more than some people who have managed to keep their positions .
how goes the battle ?
you most lying slave, whom beatings may move, not kindness!
your majesty ,  see here—if it won’t offend your grace—what a complete ,  rascally ,  beggarly ,  lousy rat this is .
and leave us ,  publius for fear that the people will attack us ,  doing some mischief to your old body .
goodbye .
and strength shall gives us help.
it’s only just now nine o'clock .
by heaven i order you, speak!
my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge .
when laban and he agreed that all the lambs which were streaked and multicolored should be given to jacob ,  the ewes ,  being divided ,  were bred with the rams at the end of autumn; and just when the rams and the ewes were in the act of procreation ,  the skilful shepherd peeled certain sticks ,  and ,  at the moment of mating ,  he stuck them up before the fat ewes ,  who ,  then conceiving ,  did in lambing time gave birth to multicolored lambs ,  and those were jacob's .
my lady told me to tell you that while she lets you stay at her house because you’re a relative ,  she doesn’t approve of your behavior .
the prince’s fool ”  !
pish !
this was the most unkindest cut of all ,  because ,  when the noble caesar saw brutus stab him ,  ingratitude ,  stronger than traitors' arms ,  quite defeated him .
niece ,  will you take care of those things i mentioned ?
you have been hotly called for; when ,  you weren’t found at your lodging ,  the senate sent about three different requests to search for you .
it was a bit short ,  my lord .
i swear it’s a habitual lust, a list and hidden opening to the history of lust and evil thoughts.
it would be good to let the general know about it .
these sentences, to sweetness or to bitterness, being strong on both sides, are equal.
i beg you to stay with us, don’t go to wittenberg.
and he’s made the holiest vows to me ,  to back up what he says .
commend me to your honorable wife: tell her the story of antonio's end; say how i loved you; speak fairly about me in death; and ,  when the tale is told ,  ask her to be the judge of whether bassanio didn’t once have a love .
dear god ,  please make him normal again !
very suspicious!
and joy is welcomed in such a needy time.
to mourn mischief that is over and gone is the next way to create new mischief .
not even a hair died; not a spot on their clothing ,  but fresher than they were before ,  and ,  as you ordered me ,  i have dispersed them in groups around the island .
i know him well .
i have it ready .
the time between six and now must be spent most preciously by us both .
this is othello's ensign ,  as i take it .
before you can say  “ come ”  and  “ go ,  ”  and breathe twice ,  and shout  “ so ,  so !  ”  each one of your servants will rush here ,
and the greatest sorrow is mine too .
mine ,  neither .
what wicked request did brutus make to you ?
i must go to england ,  you know that ?
catesby .
come break this up ,  benvolio .
i can’t change your mind ?
i would give you some violets, but they withered all when my father died.
for me ,  poor man—my library was dukedom large enough: now he believes that i am incapable of performing my political duties; he makes an alliance , — he was so hungry for power , —with the king of naples to give naples annual protection money ,  pledge allegiance ,  surrender his small crown to naples’ crown ,  and bend the dukedom ,  which had never bowed before—alas ,  poor milan ! — to most dishonorable bowing .
i know who you are .
did a dragon ever hide in such a beautiful cave ?
so don’t think that i’m drunk .
you insolent rascal ,  what trade ?
the queen ,  your mother ,  in most great affliction of spirit ,  has sent me to you .
what’s all that shouting about ?
they say there's only five on this island; we’re three of them; if the other two are brained like us, the state shakes.
come ,  driver !
i’m afraid he’ll punish me .
you may change your mind later .
oh ,  sad day !
did you say all ?
get out ,  you horrible poison .
and by all means see if you can get the young man to answer it .
does the king leave here today ?
besides ,  she treats me more respectfully than the other servants .
they in themselves, to tell the truth, are as light as a flute.
the point is that she didn’t write this letter .
i will plague them all ,  even to the point of their roaring .
women are made for
shylock ,  the world thinks ,  and i think so too ,  that you only carry this kind of malice to the very last hour of action; and then ,  it’s thought ,  you'll show your mercy and remorse ,  more strangely than your strange apparent cruelty is; and where you now exact the penalty , — which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh , — you will not only loose the default ,  but ,  touched with human gentleness and love ,  forgive half of the borrowed amount ,  glancing with an eye of pity on his losses ,  that have been so heaped on his back lately ,  enough to press a royal merchant down ,  and get sympathy for his state from brassy bosoms and rough hearts of stone ,  from stubborn turks and tartars ,  never trained to uses of tender courtesy .
yes ,  it’s true .
hamlet!
imagine them locking me out on a night like this !
something there isn’t a word for .
giving it back to him .
what can i do for your highness ?
you can be married tomorrow if you want .
the king rises .
you both are rivals and love hermia; and now both rivals to mock helena .
i think it’s too rough ,  too rude ,  too rowdy ,  and it pricks like a thorn .
my brave spirit!
you force me to read the will ,  then ?
my lord ?
but wait ,  there’s some prose after her poem .
therefore be out of hope, of question, doubt, be certain, nothing truer; it’s no joke that i do hate you and love helena.
he has epilepsy ,  a disease where you fall down .
say anything .
i knew temperance—she was a fine girl .
youth rebels against itself ,  even if no one else is near .
you can’t mean it ,  tranio !
will she still love him for chattering?
she only appears honorable from the outside .
if you’re my friend ,  you’ll let me see his letter .
the heart is sorely perplexed.
i’ll grant you that i’m a woman, but i am, besides, a woman of good reputation, cato's daughter.
what did he say the symptoms were ?
i need better evidence than the ghost to work with .
he's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies is stabbing him.
who's here?
with my meaning, sir, however you want to say it.
approach ,  my ariel; come !
don’t bring me any more reports.
so long?
fill my cup ,  lucius ,  until the wine overflows it .
i seek no revenge for myself ,  but so dearly do i hold the safety of my kingdom ,  which you sought to destroy ,  that you must be punished according to her laws .
may a plague strike both your families !
you brazen whore !
you can have it then ,  your highness .
i’ve seen her do it .
wouldn’t this do it ,  sir ,  together with a forest of feathers if the rest of my fortunes turn against with me ,  with two provincial roses on my shoes i took off ,  to get me a fellowship for writing with a pack of players ,  sir ?
just that one.
it’s been eleven years since the earthquake; and she was weaned, i never shall forget it , of all the days of the year, upon that day.
believe me, i can’t.
so you shall have a shorter journey to your desires by the means i would now have to advance them; and the impediment very profitably removed, without which we couldn’t expect to succeed.
for your part, our swords have leaden points to you, mark antony; our arms in strength of friendship, and our hearts of brotherly disposition, receive you with all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
men can be masters of their fate .
heaven help me ,  i don’t know you ,  sir .
yes, sir, i have indeed.
because ,  my good king ,  england is so poorly led ,  her scepter so foolishly borne by a vain ,  silly ,  shallow ,  impulsive youth ,  that she’s hardly a threat .
i mean ,  in a way .
for that reason he sends you this good news—that this very day your enemies ,  the queen’s relatives ,  will die at pomfret .
and even then ,  in order for me to catch the fly your cousin ,  she must be blind ?
in what sense ,  my lord ?
but you should think that we don’t come to offend, but with good will.
and why are you butting in ,  my lady wisdom ?
please ,  is my master returned yet ?
aside] fair meeting of two most rare loves!
that’s what you get for marrying christian husbands .
every wrong is not a hate at first .
god bless your worship !
things that grow are not ripe until it’s their season to be ripe ,  so i ,  being young ,  have not been ripened in reason ,  and touching the point of human skill now ,  reason has become the commander of my will ,  and it leads me to your eyes ,  where i see love's stories ,  written in love's richest book .
and if you could ,  you couldn’t bring him back to life .
won’t he join us ?
that’s well spoken .
do promise ,  kate ,  that you’ll do your french part to bring forth such a boy; and for my english half ,  take the word of a king and a bachelor .
besides ,  you’re a sponge !
take good care of him .
that’s an odd thing to say .
work on, my medicine, work!
was he a gentleman ?
the king wants to speak with cornwall .
i shall ,  my lord .
there are things in this comedy of  “ pyramus and thisbe ”  that will never please an audience .
friends ,  go .
cheer up !
please .
i’ve written to my sister telling her everything he’s said .
what’s the news ?
it is the most difficult to understand dog that ever stayed with men .
it’s the lark that sings so out of tune ,  making such harsh noise .
with this i avoid the grief of antony’s death .
was someone as beautiful as you meant to be a whore ?
he thinks he’s still playing his instrument .
popilius lena doesn’t speak about our plan, because, look, he smiles, and caesar doesn’t notice anything.
she  i can guess her answer .
go on; i'll go to dinner; go quickly to the cell .
i heard the galloping of horse .
i am about it; but, indeed, my imagination comes from my head as bird trap does from cloth, it plucks out brains and all.
only don’t be afraid to take upon you what is yours.
a very changeable rogue ,  having no further conscience than assuming the mere form of civil and humane behavior ,  for the better measure of his worth and very hidden loose affections ?
drowned ,  drowned .
yes ,  sir ,  but  “ while the grass grows ” — the proverb is a bit old - fashioned .
go back with her ?
it isn’t good for your health to expose your weak body to the raw ,  cold morning .
you are nothing like mark antony !
sir ,  i will walk here in the hall .
and weren’t you the one who made him cheat on all of his other girlfriends ,  like aegles ,  ariadne ,  and antiopa ?
if you’re joining together to right these wrongs ,  i’ll go as far as any one of you .
let's have no more of this; let's to our affairs .
come, my queen, hold hands with me, and rock the ground where these sleepers are.
now, whether or not he kills cassio, or cassio him, or each do kill the other, i gain in every way.
my lord of gloucester ,  i have suffered your blunt upbraidings and your bitterness toward me for too long .
if you had ,  the kings that have revolted and the soldier that deserted this morning would still be behind you .
he left behind myself and my twin sister ,  who was born in the same hour as me .
but while i say one prayer !
tell me what you did with the king’s ship ,  the sailors ,  and the other ships .
no, indeed, even if you had your eyes, you might not know me: it is a wise father that knows his own child.
we want to hear it ,  antony .
a living puppet show .
no lady could be more miserable than i if you two disagree .
i have wept inside ,  or should have spoken before this .
what time is it now?
oh ,  you should have done it without telling me !
give me your first ,  mr .  mustardseed .
you should know ,  my loving lord ,  i’ve heard that the marquess dorset has fled to brittany ,  to the earl of richmond .
don’t stand there shocked .
so that’s how it is now, arguing with choppy reasoning?
goodbye ,  ophelia ,  and remember well what i have said to you .
but is this law?
i look down towards his feet; but that's a fable .
i would not be delayed .
mercy only murders us, pardoning those that kill.
sir ,  i’m upset .
vows, to the blackest devil!
me too .
and will he not come again ?
i’ll fight until they hack the flesh off my bones .
i could find it in my heart to beat him , — come ,  kiss .
ok ,  i’ll say no more but to the problem .
sweet remembrancer!
i will be brief, for i don’t have enough breath to this tedious tale.
and you told me to bury my love .
my sister is all those things ,  or else she should be .
how i wish you felt better !
i know that we shall have him as a friend.
sweet montague ,  be true .
this passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go far in making a man look sad.
were you born here ?
are you coming monster ?
this dagger has been mistaken, for, behold, his empty case is on the back of montague, and it’s misplaced in my daughter's bosom!
if i had three ears, i'd still hear you.
i hope you are pleased with the snake .
by my head ,  here come the capulets .
why does the drum come here?
what is your pleasure, madam?
a rotten ,  foolish monster .
thanks for that.
i am unfortunate in the handicap, and dare not tempt my weakness with any more wine.
gracious king ,  if it pleases you ,  we will bestow ourselves .
first of all ,  my house in the city ,  as you know ,  is filled with expensive furniture and household articles ,  china and gold ,  basins and pitchers for her to wash her dainty hands in .
well ,  let’s get out of here and tell macbeth what we did accomplish .
what’s happening now ,  lucillius ?
tell me, daughter juliet, what do you think about getting married?
go to hell ,  you whore !
if you’re as good at pleading to them as i am at saying no to you ,  this will definitely come to a happy end .
isn’t my jacket, sir, as fresh as the first day i wore it?
i will not speak with her .
to brutus’s ,  to cassius’s ,  let’s burn them all .
keep listening .
i want the law ,  the penalty ,  and penalty of my promise to pay .
sorry, sir, i am half-blind; i don’t know you.
is your name shylock?
otherwise ,  i’ll die a virgin ,  devoted to you .
no stony tower ,  no walls of beaten brass ,  no airless dungeon ,  no strong chains of iron can hold the strength of the spirit; but life ,  tired of these worldly bars ,  never lacks the power to kill itself .
i have walked around the streets ,  exposing myself to the perilous night ,  unbuttoned like this ,  as you see ,  casca ,  baring my chest to the thunderbolt .
don’t you know ,  master ,  that some men’s best qualities do them in ?
who gave you the directions to this place?
i wrote a verse to this tune ,  though it’s not very imaginative .
you go down toward the capitol ,  and i’ll go this way .
most mighty caesar, let me know some reason, in case i’m laughed at when i tell them so.
give me your hand .
petruchio ?
there are things in this comedy of “pyramus and thisbe” that will never please an audience.
i come to ask you out of charity to let us wander over this bloody field to record the numbers of our dead and bury them ,  separating our nobles from the common men ,  for many of our princes—alas ! —lie drowned and soaked in the blood of mercenary soldiers .
friendship is enduring except when love is involved .
who chooses me shall get as much as he deserves.” as much as he deserves!
stay, illusion!
what do you say ,  signior gremio ?
when they won’t give a penny to relieve a lame beggar ,  they will lay out ten dollars to see a dead indian .
i frown at him, but he still loves me.
who is this fool who wants all the fuss of marriage ?
didn’t they pass by you ?
do you understand what i’m saying ,  man ?
what do you have to say about the french lord, monsieur le bon?
why are you enraged ?
so use your discretion .
and so every slave has in his own hand the power to cancel his captivity .
who could refrain, that had a heart to love, and in that heart courage to make his love known?
sir, this report of his poisoned hamlet with envy that he couldn’t do anything but wish and beg your sudden coming over her to play with him.
what are you doing ,  caesar ?
how sad ,  for mercy !
kill claudio .
he called me sebastian .
think about the ones who have died .
you won’t leave this grove until i’ve paid you back for this insult .
my husband!
he may command me as my king ,  but you still have power over me as a relative .
listen, may i have a word with you?
we are free.
oh ,  no !
i’m watching the play .
sovereign, here lies count paris slain, and romeo dead, and juliet, who was dead before, no warm and newly killed.
isn’t that the king ?
my friend ,  your husband ,  the honest ,  honest iago .
why did you once seem lovely to me ?
let me think .
kings have trembled to kiss this hand .
i wish they’d fight in fire or in the air .
she was here even now; she haunts me in every place .
leonato and his brother .
i say, amen.
indeed, my lord, it followed very soon after.
the fool’s nice enough ,  but he’s such a huge eater ,  and slow as a snail when he works .
for my part, i don’t lie in it, yet it ‘s mine.
farewell .
you’ll wear a mask ,  and you can make your voice as high as you want to .
he’s as ugly in his manners as he is in appearance . — i will indeed .
lucius ! —fast asleep ?
listen ,  sir .
let the bitter hussy kick ,  our saddles don’t pinch .
what do you have to say ,  noble friend ?
no ,  it begins again .
i don’t speak well, and i am little blessed with the soft phrase of peace because, since these arms of mine were seven years' old, until now some nine months past, they have used their dearest actions on the battlefield; and i can speak little of this great world, only what relates to feats of war and battle; and therefore i shall grace my cause little by speaking for myself.
he's gone, he's killed, he's dead!
have you heard the story ?
my fan, peter.
why ,  what’s the matter ?
hooray !
a reason ?
listen to me ,  for i have something to tell you .
no ,  i think there’s more to this than you’re letting on .
i wish you could tell him i saved his brother .
the ides of march are here .
against my will ,  i’ve been told to bring you in to dinner .  ”  there’s a double meaning in that .
like a good doctor .
now sit down ,  everybody ,  and rehearse your parts—pyramus ,  you start .
we passed them on the way ,  and they are coming here to perform .
do as i say .
how many months do you want ?
horatio, when you read this, give these fellows some way to talk to the king.
if you are not ashamed to show, he won’t be ashamed to tell you what it means.
set down your honorable load ,  men ,  if there is ever any honor in being dead .
i am indebted to you for your last sermon .
you don’t know ?
but, sir, such answer as i can make, you shall command, or rather, as you say, my mother shall command.
it is he.
i remember your eyes quite well .
go before, nurse.
go away, and stand over there.
as long as heaven and nature extend it .
very well .
oh, oh, oh!
if we welcome our punishment ,  we punish it right back by seeming to take it lightly .
the question of his death is recorded on rolls in the capitol, his glory not made thin, where he was worthy; nor are his offenses recorded, for which he suffered death.
you sent for me ,  sir ?
i know ,  prince .
forgive me ,  cousin !
is love really tender ?
the man that has no music in him, or is not moved by harmony of sweet sounds, is fit for treasons, plots, and stealing; the movement of his spirit is as dull as night, and his affections are as dark as the place between earth and hell.
as for michael cassio ,  i think it would be safe for me to swear that he’s honest .
was i with you there for the goose ?
hurry now ,  get the job done .
here's some poison wine still left .
quick ,  quick !
if i do find him fit, i'll ask for your favor, and try to get it done the best way i can.
upon my life ,  my lord ,  i’ll do it .
we want to hear caesar’s will .
but will you listen to how i proceeded ?
i don’t know.
o, wonder!
he told us to arrange it .
if they were not reinforced by those troops that should be ours, we might have met them boldly, beard to beard, and beat them backward where they came from.
quiet for awhile.—robin, take off this head.
doesn’t it look like the king ?
lo !
run to your houses, fall on your knees, pray to the gods to stop the plague that must be the punishment for this ingratitude.
o my beautiful warrior !
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
and what about him ,  tranio ?
stop it ,  marcellus !
don’t leave me in the lurch .
swear .
i'll be with you right away .
what wood is this before us ?
i’ll go no further .
my poor husband ,  my dear edward !
i can’t do this .
now ,  lords ,  don’t let slip any opportunity that might be advantageous for our expedition .
my mistress is in love with a monster .
why, anything; an honorable murderer, if you will; because nothing i did was in hate, but done all in honor.
that’s right ,  and then after we fixed the moon ,  we’d go bird - hunting .
and look where publius is coming to go get me .
worthy cawdor !
why should he stay whom love presses to go?
no ,  you’ll see ,  four days will quickly turn into four nights .
i know he wouldn’t be a wolf ,  but he sees that the romans are nothing but sheep .
where should we go ?
lady ,  amen .
bring me a bigger one .
you’ll be able to identify the man by the athenian garments he has on.
a sealed bag, two sealed bags of dollars, of double dollars, stolen from me by my daughter!
hail ,  king of scotland !
now a noble heart breaks .
truly ,  it must be a liar who could swear on both sides of the scale against either side ,  who committed treason enough for god's sake ,  yet couldn’t lie to heaven .
he’s certainly crossed the river somme .
i’ve heard too much already ,  because your words and actions don’t agree with each other .
come, we'll get some sleep.
and, i'll guarantee that she is full of game.
and wait, good nurse, behind the abbey wall.
what a sleep this is for your advancement !
because if she is not honest, chaste, and true, there's no man happy; the purest of their wives is wicked as the leis about them.
sea-spirits ring his death bell every hour: [chorus (off-stage): ding-dong.
until then, enough.
she and susan—god rest her and all christian souls—were born on the same day .
he won’t fight with me ,  domitius ?
who ever knew the heavens could be so threatening ?
let’s move .
callow youth ,  you don’t yet know how to love !
i don’t have the thing that makes time fly .
but, o vain boast!
not really ,  unless you were ugly .
yes ,  him ,  woman .
to deal with everything smoothly and evenly, this sudden sending him away must seem like a planned event.
you talk about killing?
your wife wouldn’t like it if she were here to hear you make that offer .
it rebels at this age ?
give me those flowers .
what a strange sight—a man who has put on all his fancy clothes but forgotten his brain at home !
if i do find him fit ,  i'll ask for your favor ,  and try to get it done the best way i can .
we have not disregarded your good advice ,  which has freely gone along with this affair .
sirs, you all wait outside.
go quickly—hurry—to the castle ,  for i’ve given orders to have lear and cordelia killed .
now god in heaven bless you!
don’t talk to me .
i was talking to a petitioner here just now ,  someone who’s suffering from your anger .
who should begin ?
i swear to god you’re accusing me wrongly !
damn it ,  shut your mouth .
i thank you ,  madam; give welcome to my friend: this is the man ,  this is antonio ,  to whom i am so infinitely indebted .
but you’re lying out in the cold .
please ,  pretty young man ,  i’d like to get to know you better .
here comes one of them now .
nobody but the fool ,  who’s trying to soothe the wounds in the king’s heart with jokes .
o villainous !
her grapes ,  which make the wine that cheers our hearts ,  die unpruned on the vines .
may a hot southwest wind blow on you and cover you with blisters all over .
it’s only four o'clock now .
but even so ,  i’ll make doubly sure .
what is it that they do when they exchange us for others?
and me ,  too ,  my royal sovereign .
if i took the kingdom from your sons ,  i’ll give it to your daughter to make up for it .
me quiet !
what crimes have you committed to be sent here to this prison ?
but all of you ,  remember what you’ve said and prove yourselves true romans .
only three ?
i’m so amazed by this ,  i don’t know what to say .
enobarbus ,  antony has sent you all your treasure ,  with generous gifts besides .
yes ,  sir ,  i have .
but listen ,  i thought you said you don’t lend or borrow by charging interest .
where are you ,  death ?
o ,  what a thoughtless and bloody deed this is !
they bleed on both sides.
i’m the man who was born to tame you and change you from a wildcat kate into a kate as gentle and domestic as other household kates .
his nurse ,  grandmother .
but ,  my lord ,  this boy was born in the forest and has been schooled not in the usual subjects but only in magic .
i dare damnation .
my love forgives him so, that even his stubbornness, his checks, his frowns, i beg you, unpin my hair, have grace and favor in them.
thrift ,  thrift ,  horatio !
the lowest part of his hoof is more musical than pan’s pipe .
no ,  sir ,  their hats are drawn over their ears ,  and half their faces are buried in their cloaks ,  so that i couldn’t tell from their clothes or faces who any of them are .
tybalt, do you lie there in your bloody sheet?
i will sit here in the middle .
with all my heart, sir.
oh ,  what better favor can i do for you than to kill the man who killed you with the same hand that made you die young .
likewise ,  our common men lie drenched in the blood of princes ,  and their wounded steeds ,  ankle - deep in gore ,  struggle and ,  raging wildly ,  stamp on their dead masters with their hooves ,  killing them a second time .
that’s why there must be space between you .
madam ,  the guests are come ,  supper served up ,  you are called ,  my young lady asked for ,  the nurse cursed in the pantry ,  and everything is in chaos .
is your englishman so expert in his drinking ?
i die an innocent death.
i was his daughter when your highness took my father’s dukedom .
and who can help thinking how monstrous it was for malcolm and donalbain to kill their gracious father ?
murder!
for doting ,  not for loving ,  my pupil .
raise all the money you can .
o, by this count i’ll be very old before i see my romeo again!
you may ,  mark antony .
it’s obvious .
i think she moves again.
how did they die ?
you’re wasting your efforts.
both of you know banquo was your enemy .
no ,  of course you don’t .
this disease is beyond my practice.
tybalt was my dearest cousin .
here they come .
what do kings have that private men do not ,  besides the pomp of their position ?
when he came to again, he said, if he had done or said anything out of order, he wanted the people to think it was his infirmity.
who can control his fate?
did you see anything?
ready .
well ,  you do what’s best .
by mary ,  how ?
what is my name?
here come the lovers ,  laughing happily . —i wish you joy ,  my friends !
anything i did to you ,  i did it because sir toby made me .
is that chain you’re wearing the one you promised to give to me ?
some of them are leaning already .
alas, sweet lady, what does this song mean?
i was too young at the time to appreciate her value ,  but now i know her .
he looks humbler than he used to .
he won’t see my face ever again .
you shall not blame us in your funeral speech ,  but speak all the good that you can imagine about caesar; and say you do it by our permission; or else you won’t have any part at all in his funeral .
now she’s gone forever . —cordelia ,  cordelia ,  stay a while .
o, what a great thing learning is!
yes ,  we’re the privates in her army .
then here comes one with light to open the tomb ,  and ,  by - and - by ,  my master drew his sword on him; and then i ran away to call the guards .
and you ,  the judges ,  watch carefully .
send your man away.
no flattery for him ,  no sir !
come over here; i am here.
maybe she was just naked in bed with him for an hour or so ,  but they didn’t do anything .
let’s do it with no show of anxiety—no ,  with no more fear than if we’d heard that the english were busying themselves with folk dancing .
it’s a very pleasing night to honest men .
i’m indeed ,  sir ,  a surgeon to old shoes; when they’re in great danger ,  i re - cover them .
let them go .
does any one know if donalbain be with his brother ?
we'll act up like french falconers: fly at anything we see .
oh ,  mother nature ,  why did you create lions ?
call me when it’s lit .
this isn’t the death of one man .
then, do my lips have the sin that they have taken from yours?.
this one ?
i pray that the mighty gods defend you !
this ensign of mine here was turning back; i killed the coward and took it from him.
he does well to praise himself, because no one else will praise him.
so ,  so ,  so ,  so .
tybalt ,  the kinsman to old capulet ,  has sent a letter to his father's house .
and ,  so his death bell is rung .
a lover that kills himself most gallantly for love.
all's well now, sweetheart; come away to bed.
good roaring ,  lion !
the less they deserve it ,  the more credit it is to you .
only he acted from honesty and for the general good .
go home, you idle creatures, go home!
we need some oracle to tell us what’s going on .
that’s my sister .
rules my life .  ”  hmm ,  let me see ,  let me see ,  let me see .
room for antony!—most noble antony!
and yet i wouldn’t want to be you ,  uncle .
peace!
now i’m a sensible man, soon a fool, and now a beast!
it’s been eleven years since the earthquake .
you know that the night hides my face; otherwise ,  a maiden’s blush would paint my cheek for what you overheard me say tonight .
bad people can’t appreciate wisdom or goodness .
good hermia, don’t be so angry with me.
it wants you to go off with it ,  as if it wants to tell you something alone .
if your affection for me doesn’t convince you to come ,  don’t let my letter do so .  ”  oh ,  my darling ,  make your arrangements and go !
but are they safe, ariel?
i’m not interested in being good .
i will cut off their heads .
i want to stay more than i want to go .
i pay your poverty, and not your will.
send something along to prove you’re withdrawing the orders .
choose your revenge .
their dying shouts broke my heart !
it is called “the evil,” a most miraculous work in this good king, which often, since my stay in england, i have seen him do.
if i were not forbidden to tell the secrets of my prison house, i could tell a tale whose lightest word would crush your soul, freeze your young blood, make your two eyes, like stars, jump from their sockets, your knotted and combined hair to separate, and each particular hair to stand on end like quills on the angry porcupine.
finding ourselves sailing too slow ,  we put up a great fight ,  and ,  in the skirmish ,  i boarded them .
he does ,  and now he’s taking revenge on you—for breaking promises and for murder ,  too .
this epitaph will hang here forever ,  continuing to praise hero after i die .
to escape the decree condemning me
that’s strange .
look how she carries on with him !
and make sure the servants are less friendly to his knights .
count claudio ,  when do you plan to go to church and be married ?
don’t deny to him that you love me .
good evening to my ghostly confessor .
stop right now or i’ll throw your dagger over the roof .
and ,  if you need to ,  approach the subject of me: tell them that when my mother became pregnant with the insatiable edward ,  my noble father was fighting in france .
please !
the king and prince are saying prayers !
o ,  look !
lay out the gown .
i’ve said nothing wrong .
he has one ship bound for tripoli ,  another heading for the indies .
oh ,  damn three times ,  damn ten times the evil man whose wicked deed deprived you of your ingenious mind .
if i should report this now in naples, would they believe me?
then stand with us .
we’ve driven him all the way back to his camp .
by heaven ,  i’ll make a ghost of him that holds me back !
speak to her ,  hamlet .
this love that you have shown adds more grief to mine which is already too much.
god save the king !
antonio and old shylock, both come forward.
i think i have a great desire to a bottle of hay.
if you ever loved me ,  then please postpone the sweet relief of death awhile ,  and stay in this harsh world long enough to tell my story .
down ,  and then say also that in aleppo i once saw a turk beating a venetian ,  so i grabbed the turk by the throat and hit him like this .
that, sir, which i will not report about her.
there isn’t any other way ,  unless you took on another form and became someone else .
no ,  you’ll have to excuse me .
murder !
yes ,  ma'am .
lay your finger like this, and let your soul be instructed.
isn’t it possible to understand in another tongue?
a touch, a touch, i do confess.
i hope so .
my good man norfolk ,  hurry to your post .
right now ,  i would give a 220 , 000 yards of sea for an acre of bare ground; a long wasteland ,  brown brush ,  anything .
do you know what caesar intends to do with me ?
and kill your lady, too, who lives in you, by doing damned hate to yourself?
my honored lord!
you may doubt you that the stars are fire, ”you may doubt that the sun does move, ”you may doubt truth to be a liar, ”but never doubt i love.
i would have made it short .
o, will you leave me so unsatisfied?
my first question for nerissa is whether she’d rather wait till tomorrow night or go to bed now ,  since there are only two more hours till morning .
while i see living creatures ,  the gashes look better on them .
there isn’t enough leek left for you to swear on .
a gullible father and a brother who’s so innocent that he can’t suspect anyone else of wanting to hurt him—these are the two fools i need for my plan to work .
good sir ,  whose armies are these ?
yes ,  ”  said my husband ,   ” you fell on your face ?
let the world collapse around us .
you’re in love ?
you’ve done well at sea .
how are you, lady?
as for his cowardliness ,  ask fabian .
i think nothing, my lord.
being a slave has a hoarse voice and may not speak aloud; or else i would go to the cave where echo lives, and make her airy voice more hoarse than mine is, with the repetition of my romeo's name.
you shall have permission.
just give me a moment ,  please—only a moment .
or ,  as it were perfumed by a swamp .
my father capulet wants it that way; and i won’t do anything to stop him from being so hasty .
damn you !
hold him in safety until the prince arrives.
isn’t that he who lies on the ground ?
now ,  when the bridegroom comes in the morning to wake up from your bed ,  there you are ,  dead .
where should we meet ?
do you love me ?
o you stupid moor !
you have so much natural talent ,  but like someone who hoards money ,  you use none of your talent for the right purpose—not your body ,  not your love ,  not your mind .
although we must appear bloody and cruel now, as you can see by our hands and this recent deed; still you can only see our hands and this bleeding business they have done.
fool !
peter, take my fan, and go before me.
we won’t take their garbage .
who does it stand still for ?
are you riding far?
he might have treated me like that ,  because i’m as unused to abuse as a little child .
it’s no less, i tell you, for the bawdy hand of the clock is now upon the prick of noon.
i don’t think there’s a man under the sun who’s worse at hiding his love or hate than richard .
since his majesty went into the field ,  i have seen her rise from her bed ,  throw her nightgown upon her ,  unlock her closet ,  take out paper ,  fold it ,  write upon it ,  read it ,  afterwards seal it ,  and again return to bed .
i could have saved her .
it’s so too.
tell me but this, haven’t you sometimes seen a handkerchief spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand?
but why did you tempt the sky like that?
i knew him ,  horatio ,  a fellow of infinite fun ,  of most excellent imagination .
we’re on a tight schedule .
i loved ophelia .
it’s best that he doesn’t speak harm about brutus here .
if we have sweet - smelling breath ,  i’m sure they’ll say  “ it’s a sweet play .  ”  now no more talking .
the very place puts desperate ideas ,  without any motive ,  into every brain that looks so many fathoms into the sea and hears it roar beneath .
if not ,  he’s got truth on his side !
no ,  you monstrous hags ,  i’ll get revenge on you both that will make the whole world… i will do such things—i don’t know what i’ll do exactly ,  but it’ll be devastating .
lord edmund didn’t speak to your master at home ?
claribel ,  his daughter .
horatio, you are just like the man that my conversation just now praised.
do i encourage you?
you snore distinctly: there's meaning in your snores .
and so do i .  i think we all do .
i’d be very grateful to you if you did .
or do you want me to criticize her like i do all women ?
i have a good eye ,  uncle .
just look at me kindly ,  and i’m invincible against their hatred .
but have you touched the athenian's eyes with the love - juice yet ,  as i told you to ?
fine apparition!
where’s monsieur mustardseed ?
by the mass ,  it is indeed like a camel .
alas, iago, what shall i do to win my lord again?
i am not a child or an infant .
sinful macduff, they were all struck for you!
where are these lads?
romeo ,  i’m coming !
mind your own business ; i have use for it.
he who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning ” —please ,  tell me what you meant by that .
macbeth !
where are all the rest?
for no man ,  sir .
what ,  you speak drowsily .
thank you ,  your majesty .
it’s true ,  and he asked me to beg you both to attend .
you keep cramming words into my ears that i don’t want to hear .
i need people as trustworthy as you .
let me take my chances .
patience ,  i say; your mind may perhaps change .
it’s a most holy and religious fear to keep those many, many bodies safe that depend upon your majesty.
this song’s about my dead father .
in faith ,  he's very sorry; and yet his crime ,  in our common reason ,  except that ,  they say ,  the wars must make examples out of their best ,  is not almost a fault to incur a private punishment .
i’m going now .
now ,  my lord ,  what are we going to do if we find that lord hastings won’t go along with our plans ?
this is caesar you’re looking at .
what shall i do ?
why ,  then ,  it is hers ,  my lord ,  and being hers ,  she may ,  i think ,  give it to any man .
you could just as easily say that a king sleeps near a beggar if the beggar lives near him ,  or that the church is supported by your drum because it  “ stands by ”  your drum .
have you heard the story?
listen to me ,  because i’m older than you ,  surely .
look ,  it’s going away .
divinity of hell !
what news can you tell me in this fast - moving ,  unsteady state of ours ?
i know you will say, “yes,” and i will take your word.
he was very upset that fortinbras had taken advantage of his being old and sick to deceive him ,  and he ordered fortinbras’s arrest .
i hear him coming.
i like this girl !
what's happened ,  that such a hideous trumpet calls to summon the sleepers of the house ?
if i were not forbidden to tell the secrets of my prison house ,  i could tell a tale whose lightest word would crush your soul ,  freeze your young blood ,  make your two eyes ,  like stars ,  jump from their sockets ,  your knotted and combined hair to separate ,  and each particular hair to stand on end like quills on the angry porcupine .
did this seem ambitious in caesar ?
such a kind father ! —are my horses ready ?
i wish i had a fault like that !
we'll not run ,  monsieur monster .
ay ,  or else someone must come in with a bush of thorns and a lantern ,  and say he comes to imitate or to present the person of moonshine .
i am too sore from being pierced with cupid’s shaft to soar with his wings; and so wounded, i cannot jump even a little bit above dull woe.
but ,  my good brother ,  don’t ,  as some insincere ministers do ,  show me the steep and thorny way to heaven ,  while ,  like a proud and reckless wild man ,  preaches against the primrose path of sin and does not practice what he preaches .
can’t you talk ?
if she can’t find out what’s wrong, then send him to england, or lock him up where you think is the best place.
young man ,  when you wake up ,  if she’s nearby ,  beg her to cure your lovesickness .
when the wind is from the south ,  i know a hawk from a handsaw .
now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die .
ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that rosaline, torments him so that he will sure run mad.
what’s the name of the play?
bring them before us .
look it’s coming again !
i have more care to stay than will to go.
so my eye is very attracted to your shape; and your fair virtue's force violently moves me, on the first look of you, to say, to swear, i love you.
she was tricked ,  divorced ,  wronged ,  spited ,  killed !
i have made you crazy: and even with similar courage ,  men hang and drown themselves .
i am calm ,  sir .
my lady!
never trust me again if i don’t .
what is going on between you?
his beard was as white as snow ,  all white was his hair .
no ,  a woman’s gentle brain could never have come up with such crude expressions and even harsher meanings .
for which, as i told you, antonio shall be obligated.
yes ,  shylock ,  i’ll sign the contract and agree to its terms .
she’s dead ,  i think . —help ,  uncle ! —hero ,  why hero !
when did i say all that ?
but thinking like this won’t help me choose a husband .
please wear this ring .
why not ?
here, horrible shadow!
i told him you were sick .
his life was gentle ,  and the elements mixed so well in him that nature might stand up and say to all the world ,   “ this was a man .  ”  let’s treat him according to his virtue ,  with all the respect and rituals of burial .
these past fifteen years you have been living in a dream ,  and even when you were awake ,  it was as though you slept .
a little grief shows much love; but too much of grief shows a little craziness.
surely he that made us with such large capacity, looking before and after, didn’t give us that capability and godlike reason to go stale in us, unused.
but if a man becomes weary of these obstacles ,  he can always kill himself .
they’ll assume that cicero ,  with his sound judgment ,  ordered the actions .
sir ,  this is the truth: you and the rest—all the people who have ever talked about her—have all been wrong .
yes ,  sir .
and did they ask you to tell beatrice about this ,  madam ?
o ,  damn you ,  slanderer !
all this conversing has turned men into tongues—and fancy ones ,  at that .
i have to obey .
that’s music to my ears .
we have willing dames enough, so there cannot be that vulture in you, to devour so many as will dedicate themselves to greatness, finding greatness so inclined.
it’s meant in good will .
who treated you badly ?
what treasure did he have ,  my lord ?
ma'am ,  my master’s coming .
it would anger him to raise a spirit in his mistress' circle ,  of some strange nature ,  letting it stand there until she had laid it down ,  and conjured it down .
but i just can’t love him .
your father was always a holy man ,  and holy men have good ideas when they die; so the lottery that he has thought up in these three chests ,  made of gold ,  of silver ,  and of lead ,  by means of which whoever chooses the right chest chooses you ,  will ,  no doubt ,  never be chosen by the right man except the one you shall rightly love .
don’t, my lord.
more than prince of cats, i can tell you.
to choose love by what another person sees!
but what about your guilty conscience ?
yes ,  he did .
i will be satisfied or shamed .
before the debt is paid ?
let’s embrace
but is it true ,  salanio ?
how many times will caesar bleed in amusement, that lies now next to pompey's statue, no worthier than the dust!
i'll follow, stephano.
no ,  not for all of venice .
i meant a crowbar .
is this the noble moor whom our full senate said had it all ?
it is faded, and rather like a dream than a definite memory in my mind.
you are really putting your virginity at risk, to leave the city, and surrender yourself to the hands of someone who doesn’t love you, to go night thinking that nothing can happen, and to come to a deserted place, with something as rich as your virginity.
reborn .
tonight let’s have plenty to eat .
if love is blind ,  it can’t hit the target .
he is wise; and ,  on my life ,  he has stolen home to bed .
the little song reminds me of my drowned father .
if he’s in a good mood i’ll mention you again ,  and do everything i can .
and also to find out the size of the enemy army .
what else you do know ?
well, in that hit, you miss.
take him away .
live ,  and be prosperous ,  and ,  farewell ,  good fellow .
ah, juliet, if the amount of your joy is heaped up like mine, and that your sense of right be more to adorn it with, then sweeten this neighboring air with your breath, and let rich music's language reveal the imagined happiness that we both receive in this dear meeting.
if this is known ,  cassius or caesar shall never turn back ,  because i’ll kill myself .
he must be wearing this crazy outfit for some reason .
leave her to heaven, and to those thorns that live in her bosom, to prick and sting her.
look ,  my love ,  what are those streaks of light in the clouds parting in the east ?
you know that the style of a man’s jacket or hat or coat means nothing .
there are no bushes or shrubs to protect me from the weather here .
my countrymen,— peace!
wake up ,  i say !
daughters who can make you obey them .
thieves !
wrong ,  evil traitor .
when my cue comes ,  call me ,  and i will answer .
yes ,  thoroughly .
who takes care of them ?
it seems it is as proper for our age to cast beyond ourselves in our opinions as it is common for the younger sort to lack discretion .
here’s something good .
tell me how you have disposed of the king's ship ,  the sailors ,  and all the rest of the fleet ?
if they’d put you in the stocks for asking that question ,  you would’ve deserved it .
i’ll try to persuade him to put on something more appropriate before going to the church ,  if it’s at all possible .
who are you ?
yes ,  yes ,  it was bassanio ,  i think ,  or so he was called .
even innocents cannot always escape disaster .
knock, knock!
farewell ,  you group of spirits; i have to get going .
if you’re just insane ,  then get out of here .
how did you learn about this ?
alas ,  i am the mother of all these others' griefs .
what's the matter with you now?
are you my son ?
because then i’d have to shed an ounce or two of your impudent blood .
with all my heart, and it makes me happy to hear that he is so inclined.
if you were a woman ,  i’d hug you now and cry ,  and say  “ welcome back ,  drowned viola !  ”  my father had a mole on his forehead .
i’ll secure the doors, and cover myself with some more dollars, and i’ll be with you right away.
no?
i think the best sign of intelligence will soon be silence ,  and talking will only be a good thing for parrots to do .
hey ,  mistress !
either there are wars in heaven ,  or else the world ,  too insolent toward the gods ,  provokes them to send destruction .
is there anything else to say ?
after you ,  my lords ?
it’s almost night now.
your father would be a fool to give you all his wealth and spend his declining years as a guest in your house .
i might call him a divine thing; because i have never seen anything so natural that was so noble.
oh ,  you villain ,  villain ,  you damned ,  smiling villain !
greet the king with a welcoming expression in your eyes ,  your hands ,  and your words .
your descendants will be kings ,  even though you will not be one .
here is the list of every man's name ,  who are thought to be the best in all athens ,  to play in our play before the duke and duchess at night on their wedding - day .
my lord !
i’m sorry they offend you, heartily, yes, indeed, heartily.
yes ,  really .
no ,  i’m sure your grace won’t be able to persuade him to try a second round ,  even though you couldn’t dissuade him from trying the first .
it’s an outstanding army and highly motivated .
it may be so .
even he ,  sir .
i hope she doesn’t have a crush on me !
may you choke on any other sentiments like that !
but i have words that would be howled out into the desert air, where hearing should not catch them.
give me that chisel - edged pick and the iron wrench .
first ,  pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself ,  which the ladies cannot stand .
i'll read the writing .
we are wasting time; please ,  enforce sentence .
no stony tower, no walls of beaten brass, no airless dungeon, no strong chains of iron can hold the strength of the spirit; but life, tired of these worldly bars, never lacks the power to kill itself.
they’re playing with me .
why ,  go to bed and sleep .
peace ,  and be quiet !
who is it that cried!
my own ears heard it ,  and you know it .
that’s how you’ll talk about me when you’re in this mood .
i beg you, emilia, go find out about cassio, where he had dinner tonight.
do not ,  phoebe .
sailors, sir.
but, to go back to where i started, our wills and fates run in so much in different directions, that our plans are still turned upside down, our thoughts are ours, but their results aren’t ours.
brave son, fathered from honorable loins!
o ,  she is more the angel ,  and you the blacker devil !
go ,  but sign the deed .
amen .
no one hardly asks who the dead man's knell is for ,  and good men's lives expire before the flowers in their caps ,  dying before the flowers show signs of sickness .
cowards die many times before their deaths .
the king has just honored me ,  and i have earned the good opinion of all sorts of people .
hey, roderigo!
why are you so sad ?
for brutus' sake ,  i’m grateful to you .
i am at your service .
neither ?
heartily ,  farewell .
he lies tonight within twenty-one miles of rome.
i thought i heard a voice cry ,   “ sleep no more !
good .
sir ,  do you know who i am ?
where’s my father ?
that won’t work ,  since i’m still reaping the rewards of that murder: my crown and my queen .
no ,  cassius ,  because the eye can only see itself in a mirror or by some other thing like it .
here on her breast there’s a little bloody mark .
yes ,  well ,  things could get better .
by mary ,  heaven forbid !
what do you say about this change?
actually ,  an old religious uncle of mine taught me how to speak ,  and he was brought up in the city .
i can’t report more of this matter, but men are men; the best sometimes forget themselves.
an hour before you pulled me out of the breaking waves ,  my sister drowned .
her name is katherina minola ,  famous throughout padua for her scolding tongue .
the criminal is the one who stole the nest .
why ,  you were with him ,  weren’t you ?
my lord?
well ,  she got away .
i’m ready .
knock ,  knock ,  knock !
did i ?
as i remember ,  this should be the house .
this is for your master’s sake ,  not mine .
caesar ,  you thought this would happen .
i’ll kill him ,  and she kills me .
what a horrible day !
write them together—yours is just as good a name .
how oddly it will sound that i must ask my child for forgiveness!
what man is there so very unreasonable ,  that ,  if you had bothered to defend it with any terms of earnestness ,  lacked the modesty to encourage the thing be held as a ceremony ?
go release them, ariel.
i’m in a good mood now and likely to give you what you want .
you’re a fool .
how’s the queen ?
what else ?
what ,  paris too ?
but then i saw no harm, and then i heard each syllable that was exchanged between them.
sir ,  i leave you to your own contentment .
i did .
yes ,  my lord .
i tell you ,  you’ve ruined her gown .
i don’t know why i should be afraid ,  since i haven’t done anything wrong .
now heaven has her .
but he didn’t do it.
look how she rubs her hands .
i’d rather they killed me than have to live without your love .
octavius ,  lead your forces slowly out to the left side of the level field .
o wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother!
give me your blessing .
i’ll go ,  sir ,  and not trouble you .
could you feed on this fair mountain, and glut yourself on this swamp?
speak behind the door.
this hard work would be boring and nasty to me ,  but i’m working for a mistress who makes me enjoy my labor .
i wish i could see this invisible drummer .
tell us how it happened ,  gentle casca .
i’ll open my arms wide like this to his good friends, and, like the pelican of the old fables, feed them with my own blood.
farewell .
he will if he lives long enough to become a man .
please give me that .
i’ll get you for that .
the moor is of a free and open nature ,  that thinks men are honest that only seem to be so; and will as tenderly be led by the nose as asses are .
none ,  brutus ,  none .
listen, how they knock!
what ,  is he dead ?
how did this happen ?
talk no more.
sorrow interrupts all hours and seasons .
come on ,  wait on him; lead him to my private apartment .
what, of venice?
well then ,  margaret ,  ursula ,  and my cousin have been very much deceived ,  for they swore you did .
are you an actor ?
my lord sebastian ,  even though what you say is true ,  your way of saying it is tactless and comes at the wrong time .
where am i going ?
spoken like a gentleman .
we'll have it tomorrow night .
but i won’t attack a woman ,  even if she is a demon .
provide your vessels and your spells, your charms, and everything else beside.
has it come to this ?
see that it is done ,  and prepare a feast for the soldiers .
call my brother .
all ladies love me ,  except you .
it ‘s a pity of him .
he’s a dreamer; let’s get away from him.
it’s best just to let him go .
find the jew's house ,  give him this deed ,  and let him sign it; we'll leave tonight ,  and be a day ahead of our husbands coming home .
judge for yourself .
then it must be banquo’s .
true ,  i talk of dreams ,  which are the children of an idle brain ,  born of nothing but vain fantasy; which is as thin of substance as the air ,  and more inconstant than the wind ,  who courts ,  even now ,  the frozen heart of the north ,  and ,  being angered ,  puffs away from there ,  turning his face to the dew - dropping south .
you purple flower ,  hit by cupid’s arrow ,  sink into the pupils of this man’s eyes .
i’m growing a beard .
every night i’m awakened by his  poor dear ,  goodbye .
by heaven, i love you better than i love myself, because i came here only armed against myself.
stop !
you elves of hills ,  brooks ,  standing lakes ,  and groves; and you that chase the ebbing ocean on the sands without leaving a foot print ,  and run from him when he comes back; you half - puppets that make the green ringlets sour by moonshine ,  where the ewe doesn’t bite; and you whose pastime is to make midnight mushrooms that are happy to hear the curfew sound; by whose aid , — weak masters though you are , —i have dimmed the noontide sun ,  called the mutinous winds ,  and set roaring between the green sea and the blue sky: i haven given fire to the dreaded rattling thunder ,  and split jove's stout oak with his own lightning bolt: i have made the strong - based land that stuck out into the ocean shake; and plucked up the pine and cedar by the roots: at my command ,  graves have awakened the dead ,  opened the coffins ,  and let them walk out by my so powerful magic .
why, don’t you see it?
i hope not .
that is a mistake.
even better ,  and worse .
it's true, good lieutenant.
oh ,  caesar ,  this charmian lived until a moment ago .
these many men then shall die; their names are checked on the list .
i bet it’s a love letter !
please wait .
what will i do, do you think?
lock the doors ,  my lord .
if his hidden guilt don’t show itself in that one speech ,  it is a false ghost that we have seen ,  and my imaginations are as unstable as god of fire’s anvil .
o clitus !
yes ,  as short as a woman’s love .
i beg your honors’ mercy, heartily.—what is your name?
i have had a dream— it’s beyond the smartest man to say what kind of dream it was . —man is only a donkey if he goes about to telling this dream .
find out the way ,  and i’ll find the right man .
caius ligarius doesn’t like caesar ,  who berated him for speaking well of pompey .
are you indeed ?
you should mock me    i wish i were invisible ,  so i could grab that strong fellow by the leg .
get me some poison, iago; this night.
no ,  just help me unpin this .
and here i am ,  going crazy in the middle of the woods because i can’t find my hermia .
do you know me, my lord?
is romeo slaughtered, and is tybalt dead?
not many ,  and no one important .
i will read it .
what's the matter?
the royal tree has left us other fruit ,  which ,  with time ,  will do just fine on the throne and make us all happy as king ,  i’m sure .
and if your love can produce something from its sadness ,  write a poem for her; hang it on her grave and sing it to her bones .
what a pity ,  what a pity that heaven should practice its strategies on a weak subject such as i am !
why, what are you?
and you’ve come at a very happy time to bear my greeting to the senators ,  and tell them that i can’t come today .
no man born from a woman will ever defeat you .  ”  so get out of here ,  disloyal thanes ,  and join the weak and decadent english !
look ,  here it is .
oh ,  come on .
but i’m a hired hand: i don’t profit from the flocks i tend .
come then ,  kiss me and take the last bit of warmth from my lips .
how full of meaning his replies sometimes are !
well ,  i disagree .
dead !
go get some water and wash this bloody evidence from your hands .
yes ,  and that’s a serious failing .
all these swords have a length?
why ,  how are you ,  juliet ?
you have to stop talking like this .
if you want to make me happy ,  don’t wish yourself harm .
show it !
fled to his house amazed.
is the news good or bad that you enter without knocking ?
okay ,  just stay quiet .
it is some meteor that the sun spits out to be a torch - bearer for you tonight and light your way to mantua .
he tells me ,  my sweet queen ,  he has found the head and source of all your son's unhappiness .
casca, you’re the first one to strike.
come on ,  put your sword away ,  my little soldier .
cassius falls as low as your foot, to beg freedom for publius cimber.
poor man!
you wouldn’t tell a sick man he  “ seriously ”  has to make his will—it would just make him worse .
sit down ,  clitus .
what do you believe ?
swaggering ?
i’m sure i can guess .
and leave us, publius for fear that the people will attack us, doing some mischief to your old body.
do that .
the charm dissolves quickly; and as the morning steals on into the night ,  melting the darkness ,  so their rising senses begin to chase the ignorant fumes that cloud their clearer reason . —o good gonzalo !
tybalt is dead ,  and romeo banished .  ”  that  “ banished ,  ”  that one word  “ banished ,  ”  has killed ten thousand tybalts .
farewell ,  kind master .
rub his temples .
won’t you be patient ?
as surely as i am the queen of egypt ,  antony ,  you’re blushing ,  which means you’re caesar’s servant .
how do you get along now?
there’s more knocking .
if arguing makes us sweat, the proof of it will turn to redder drops.
what do you say then ,  would heart of man once think it ?
just tell me this: have you ever seen her holding a handkerchief with an embroidered strawberry pattern on it ?
should we sing a round to wake up the night owl ?
no ,  not me ,  sir .
the old proverb is very well parted between my master shylock and you ,  sir: you have the grace of god ,  sir ,  and he has enough .
she is to enter now ,  and i am to spy her through the wall .
who is here so low thatthey would rather be a slave ?
pity the hand that shed this valuable blood .
a surgeon !
oh ,  to hell with those people !
your fortunes are the same .
oh that my prayers could be answered with such affection!
the beautiful helen of troy had a thousand suitors .
the ground is bloody .
what, sir, how!
please ,  tell me some of them .
i wish they had stayed!
if there’s enough wind for a ship to sail out tonight ,  i won’t spend tonight in this town .
they say they have letters for you .
ha ha ,  are you good ?
did she see you there the whole time ,  old boy ?
tunis has never had such a beautiful queen .
that you’ve wronged me shows in this action: you’ve condemned and punished lucius pella for taking bribes from the sardians here, and my letters, taking his side because i knew the man, were blown off.
followed you on your sad wanderings ,  ever since your bad luck began .
isn’t tomorrow ,  boy ,  the ides of march ?
and ,  in fact ,  i think they’re meeting together right now .
those island - bred skeletons ,  terrified for their bones ,  are an offensive sight on the morning field .
no more than i do yours .
madam ,  although i’m saying it in front of you ,  you have a noble and a true understanding of godlike friendship ,  which appears most strongly in your behaving like this in the absence of your lord .
don’t you hear me speaking ?
you are to die.
once again you bring good news .
romeo shall thank you ,  daughter ,  for us both .
look, where he has turned pale, and has tears in his eyes.
the doors are open; and the grooms ,  filled to excess ,  defy their duty with snores .
who's that ?
brave titinius!
bring him my head .
now ,  before god ,  everyone in our whole city is much bound to this reverend holy friar .
it was just like in real life ,  dark brown with silver whiskers in it .
even if she’s ugly ,  she’ll be smart enough to find a guy to sleep with her .
weak of purpose!
ah me!
it was the very day that young hamlet was born ,  he that is crazy and sent into england .
out, out, you loose woman, fortune!
i hope what she’s saying is well ,  sir !
are we all here ?
yes ,  that’s for sure .
if i extinguish the candle ,  i can light it again if i regret it .
but give them all a good dinner and look after them well .
well ,  have it your way .
besides , —i haven’t used my sword since— i met a lion ,  in front of the capitol ,  who glared at me ,  and angrily passed me by ,  without attacking me ,  and there were a hundred ghastly women gathered in a heap ,  transformed by their fear; who swore they saw men ,  all on fire ,  walking up and down the streets .
he made you to be a highway to my bed; but i ,  a maid ,  die a maiden and a widow .
what’s your trade, you deceitful man?
who does time amble for ?
i hate an ungrateful man more than i hate lying ,  vanity ,  babbling ,  drunkenness ,  or any other vice that we feeble human beings are susceptible to . — oh ,  my god !
i will be brief because i’m not going to live long enough to tell a boring story .
it was you we laughed at .
feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, sick health!
is it possible that any crime could be so valuable ?
how are you ,  hero ?
say ,  why is this ?
swords don’t frighten me .
come ,  gentle night; come ,  loving ,  black - browed night ,  give me my romeo; and ,  when he shall die ,  take him and cut him out in little stars ,  and he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night ,  and pay no worship to the glaring sun .
what do you say ?
he wouldn’t say that .
but in return ,  please ,  do one thing for me: leave me alone for a little while .
how strange i’m feeling !
o wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
it never occurred to me to imagine there was anything more to know .
what ,  you’re dressed !
your preparation for war sounds like something .
the moon goes down at twelve.
turn back, dull earth, and find out where your center is.
believe me ,  i can’t .
i know it .
for pity’s sake ,  what’s this noise ?
if he speaks anything against me ,  i'll take him down ,  even if he were lustier than he is ,  and twenty such jacks; and if i cannot ,  i'll find those that shall .
moor ,  she was chaste; she loved you ,  cruel moor; so my soul goes to heaven ,  because i tell the truth; so speaking as i think ,  i die ,  i die .
the mayor is here at hand .
i'll fight until my flesh is hacked from my bones .
fire and brimstone!
herald ,  spare yourself .
all this so suddenly ? —edmund ,  what’s going on ?
if you can’t remember the stupidest little thing love made you do ,  you haven’t loved .
i tell you it is not very well.
and you won’t tell me who you are ?
faith, that he did, i don’t know what he did.
great happiness!
you’ve stained your virtue with your own actions .
indeed ,  my lord .
call her to come to me.
stand close; this is the same athenian .
i hope it works out for the best ,  lepidus .
look how far that little candle sends its light !
oh ,  ceremony ,  only show me your value !
don’t i tell you in the clearest terms that i do not and cannot love you ?
messala, this is my birthday; cassius was born on this very day.
here comes young mr .  ganymede ,  my new mistress’s brother .
we are free from his tyranny .
you’re going to ask me why i’d rather have a pound of decaying flesh than three thousand ducats .
while i was looking for a flint to light it ,  i found this paper on the window ,  sealed up like this ,  and i’m sure it wasn’t there when i went to bed .
it would’ve been us if we had been there .
and as you said (and you said it wisely) ,  it’s good to have someone other than a mother listening in on them ,  since she can be too partial to him .
upon the heath.
no ,  monster ,  not me .
look ,  how she blushes like a virgin !
how unfortunate to meet you by moonlight, proud titania.
we are ruined, lady, we are ruined!
cassius ,  don’t take it badly .
brother ,  i’ll go and bring it to you .
before i saw lysander ,  athens seemed like paradise to me .
what ,  you mean my face looks like a crab - apple ?
i will go out .
do you look pale ,  mistress ?
now all the late travellers are hurrying to reach their inns .
conceal my virgin blood ,  fluttering in my cheeks ,  with your black mantle ,  until unknown love ,  grown bold ,  thinks that true love is an act of simple modesty .
be patient with him ,  brutus; it’s the way he is .
macbeth!
i’ll tell you truly what i think about the king in my heart .
we’ve been betrayed !
i won’t tolerate him .
bring here the gentleman who advised you to give away your land .
give me the necklace !
six cents a-day in pyramus, or nothing.
if i ever loved her, all that love is gone.
do you really mean that ?
you have my word as a gentleman that i’ll always be grateful to you .
you worthless man !
i’m even happier that i’m not stupid ,  and i can learn .
i think so too .
and what i spoke, i spoke to my face.
i pray that god ends his life before i die ,  so i can say ,   “ the dog is dead !  ”
i have observed that the air is delicate in areas where they frequently breed and visit .
is it fashionable now for neglected fathers to get so little pity ?
come ,  my sweet kate .
as still as the grave .
i’ll chop her into pieces .
believe me ,  king of illusions ,  i made a mistake .
our tolerance for slavery and oppression shows us to be weak ,  like women .
now you must see that i am not guilty, and you must put me in your heart as a friend, since you have heard, and with a knowing ear, that man who killed your noble father wanted to kill me.
i'll go after that same villain ,  because he is a damned slave .
caesar !
very soon ,  because you want it .
read it ,  mark antony .
the man who brought my answer to you was a fool .
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; fire ,  burn; and caldron ,  bubble .
but come, your italian country dance; forget your epilogue.
go immediately ,  and do exactly as i wrote down .
friends of this country .
first, pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself, which the ladies cannot stand.
yes ,  madam .
ever since venus and her blind son plotted a way for the god of the underworld to steal my daughter away for half the year ,  i swore i’d never speak to them again .
there never was so rich a gem set in something worse than gold.
oh night, which ever is when day is not!
look with what courteous action it waves you to a more private ground.
i'll not believe it .
only there's no bottom ,  none ,  in my own evils .
hurry up ,  it’s getting late .
shake off this soft sleep ,  death's disguise ,  and look on death itself !
he’s really taken this prank to heart .
here we’ll shake hands good - bye .
what, dares the slave come hither, covered with a mask, to sneer and scorn at our feast?
what is it, my lord?
are those my tents on fire ?
i’ll stop at every house .
then tell her my loving story in simple terms .
come ,  come ,  i know what you’re referring to ,  richard .
so it is on earth .
i’ll be good ,  sir .
well ,  i recognize this one  good god !
merciful powers ,  keep away the nightmares that plague me when i rest !
that doesn’t matter .
do you like this speed?
she’s been drowned in salty sea water ,  and now my salty tears are about to drown her memory all over again .
the turkish navy will be broken up .
what should we say ,  my lord ?
sir?
what are you doing ,  old man ?
come on ,  you and i will go soon .
call peter, he’ll show you where they are.
finally the new moon ,  curved like a silver bow in the sky ,  will look down on our wedding celebration .
and there’s a messenger representing a fifth one ,  the prince of morocco ,  who says the prince will be here tonight .
if his hidden guilt don’t show itself in that one speech, it is a false ghost that we have seen, and my imaginations are as unstable as god of fire’s anvil.
let the gods who stirred up this dreadful storm bring their enemies to light .
my tears shall be spent ,  when theirs are dry ,  for romeo's banishment .
o ,  she will sing the savageness out of a bear !
once we have covered the two servants with blood ,  and used their daggers to kill ,  won’t people believe that they were the culprits ?
stop ,  demetrius !
go about your business ,  wench; serve god .
give me one kiss ,  and i’ll go down .
now let my courage prove my title as wife .
go .
go to him from me .
hello ,  ho ,  ho ,  boy !
the testament !
ha, ha!
there’d be no marriage ?
this doesn’t look very much like portia!
oh !
what do you need me to do ?
what’s the news ,  my good friends ?
most powerful lord ,  my mistress cleopatra sent me to you .
i take all responsibility for my decisions .
the war’s over and the turks are drowned .
the king will be offended to find out that his messenger is so badly treated .
it was merely a joke; i didn’t pay attention to it .
i don’t until you practice them on me .
and i was just going to yours .
do you think so ,  spirit ?
oh!
he fights as you sing prick - song keeps time ,  distance ,  and proportion; rests his minimum rest .
you are a fool . —you ,  niece ,  prepare to leave .
well, do so: don’t let me take him then; because, if i do, i'll break the young clerk's pen.
alas ,  you don’t know; i must tell you then .
and then it seemed startled ,  like a guilty thing running from a court order .
quiet !
error in the bill ,  sir ,  error in the bill !
i never may believe these antique fables ,  or these fairy toys .
true, i talk of dreams, which are the children of an idle brain, born of nothing but vain fantasy; which is as thin of substance as the air, and more inconstant than the wind, who courts, even now, the frozen heart of the north, and, being angered, puffs away from there, turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
therefore ,  the fact that you’re awake this early tells me you’ve been upset with some anxiety .
wasn’t charles ,  the duke’s wrestler ,  here to speak with me ?
look out ,  he’s coming !
let’s hope we never need your help for anything .
why do we party until we’re like animals ?
i always pray for them
the chicken is burning ,  the pig is overcooked ,  the clock has already struck twelve ,  and my mistress has clocked me one on the cheek .
it wouldn’t hurt you to be charitable .
and i.
and you’re covered in blood ?
where is your harp?
but hear me ,  countrymen; still hear me speak .
hear me with patience.
who can say i mean just her when all her neighbors are exactly like her ?
here’s a goat for you .
yes, believe me, and all his lords, the duke of milan, and his brave son being two of those lost.
divide each man into a thousand ,  and there you will have an imaginary army .
don’t weep, don’t weep.
did we, my lord?
speak once again .
and he doesn’t let go of his target when a distraction appears .
let spoiled children ,  light of heart ,  tickle the senseless weeds with their running and dancing; for i am composing proverbs with a grandfather’s words ,  i'll be a candle - holder and look on ,  the game was never any fun and i am done .
are you serious ?
most sweet lady— oh ,   “ sweet ”  !
let me embrace the father of lucentio ,  and then we’ll journey on to see your son ,  who will rejoice at your arrival .
he who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning .
peter ,  stay at the gate .
may the gods bless antony today !
three thousand dollars ,  for three months ,  and antonio obligated .
good spirit !
trebonius wants you to read this humble suit at your leisure .
there’s been a whole debate on the topic .
i'll go get him now .
if knives ,  poison ,  or snakes have edge ,  effect ,  or venom ,  i am safe from that fate .
oh !
now, hamlet, listen.
you’re trying to trick me ,  my lord .
she’s accustomed to it ,  to seem to washing her hands in this way .
a sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap, and munched, and munched, and munched.
i think antonio only loves the world for him .
you can’t find that out ,  even if you held my heart in your hand you couldn’t make me tell you .
yes ,  and one other place ,  if you’ll only let me name it .
if only his lord were more like him .
if you let her go this easily ,  sir andrew ,  you don’t deserve to ever use your sword again .
you’re a cobbler ,  are you ?
i think we’ll have to leave out all the killing ,  come to think of it .
come, musicians, play.
seen too early as an unknown, and now known too late!
you do me wrong by taking me out of the grave .
she lies there ,  like the flower that she was ,  her virginity taken by him .
i’ve never known any woman or seen a woman’s face—except my own in the mirror .
go in ,  nerissa: give orders to my servants that they take no notice at all of our being absent from here; nor you ,  lorenzo; jessica ,  nor you .
you understand me ,  yes ?
only let the order of the universe be disrupted, both the real and spiritual worlds suffer, before we will eat our meal in fear, and sleep in the affliction of these terrible dreams that wake us up nightly.
at pembroke ,  or at harfordwest in wales .
farewell to you both .
where do you come from?
your words are idiotic .
come over here my right side, because i am deaf in this ear, and tell me what you really think of him.
old montague is out there, and waves his blade in spite of me.
the back - handed thrust !
tomorrow ,  as he intends .
nurse, will you go with me to my closet, and help me pick out the things you think i will need for tomorrow?
cassio not killed !
what i have done that might deeply hurt your nature, honor, and complaints, i here proclaim was craziness.
he has confessed.
hey ,  nurse !
let’s drink through midnight .
come on ,  music !
he must be possessed by the devil .
come over here ,  gentlemen ,  and lay your hands again on my sword .
i don’t know about that .
it pleases you ,  i’ll meet you in the marketplace at five and will keep you company until bedtime .
hear me with patience .
it would be a pretty stingy love if it could be counted and calculated .
thank god ” —that’s a good answer .
be pointed and brief .
have you come to make confession to this father ?
one sees more devils than vast hell can hold; that is the madman .
so ,  to answer your question .
that way is to call her beauty, which is exquisite, more into question.
i’ll confess to you that i love him .
his wildness is a threat to all of us—to you ,  to me ,  to everyone .
my lord shall never rest; i'll watch him calmly, and talk him out of patience; his bed shall seem like a school, his meals a confessional; i'll intermingle everything he does with cassio's suit.
well, peace be with you, sir.
when i strike ,  i’ll cry ,   “ all or nothing !  ”  well put .
leave him alone .
fulvia is dead .
let it be their comfort that we are coming there .
thanks, rosencrantz and gentle guildenstern.
o ,  a chair ,  a chair !
why ,  how are you ,  hecate ?
well ,  explain—but do it fast so that your puny store of kindness isn’t used up by talking about it .
first, good peter quince, tell us what the play’s about, then read the names of the actors; and so get to the point.
stop harry of england ,  who is now sweeping through our land with banners drenched in the french blood he spilled at harfleur .
is my father well ?
why ,  what’s the problem ?
aren’t you listening to me speak ?
most lamentable day ,  most woeful day that ever ,  ever ,  i have seen !
i’m not insane ,  sir topas .
put the torch out ,  so i can’t be seen .
promise me you’ll let me live ,  and i’ll confess the truth .
listen, clitus.
you are not ,  cassius .
good love ,  call him back .
i’ll be off before you are .
i beg you, pardon me; i cannot speak.
good then ,  casca .
what good could they claim?
it is impossible that you should see this if they were as prime as goats ,  as hot as monkeys ,  as salty as wolves in a pride ,  and fools as disgusting as ignorance made drunk .
o ,  find him !
that’s very true ,  mangy rascal ,  when it pleases god .
come ,  love and health to all; then i'll sit down .
what’s going on ,  wife !
are you going to watch again tonight ?
it took me two years before i had a single tooth .
my request to her is, that she will manage to get me access to virtuous desdemona.
i heard the news ,  my lord .
come now ,  keep your oath .
we will .
man doesn’t delight me ,  no ,  nor woman either ,  though by your smiling ,  you seem to find that funny .
hello, ho, ho, boy!
speak ,  nephew ,  where you there when it started ?
but if you would think about the true cause, why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts, why birds and beasts, from quality and kind; why old men, fools, and children think about it— why all these things change from their usual order, change their natures, and their normal events to monstrous disorder—why, you shall find that heaven has infused the lightening with these spirits, to make them instruments of fear and warning about some monstrous state.
if you choose that one ,  i’m yours ,  along with the picture .
meet me right away at the harbor .
it’s definitely maria’s handwriting .
as caesar loved me ,  i weep for him; as he was fortunate ,  i rejoice at it; as he was valiant ,  i honor him; but ,  as he was ambitious ,  i killed him .
what are you saying ?
and after this i’ll be good and hope you forgive me .
challenge the count’s young servant to a fight .
and they’ve got their swords unsheathed !
cheer up ,  good adam .
i'll make so bold to call ,  because it is my limited service .
commend me to thy lady; and bid her to hurry the whole house to bed, which heavy sorrow makes them more likely to do.
well, have it your way.
you rotten scoundrel !
thank you for all your efforts .
should we just get down to it ?
caesar ,  it’s eight o'clock .
i asked you for certain sums of gold, which you denied me;— because i cannot raise any money by dirty means.
lady!
his majesty is so concerned about my personal safety that he has ordered them to conduct me to the  you’re being arrested ?
gone?
how’s our cousin hamlet?
tranio ,  i think i’ve got it !
god bless you ,  sir !
yes ,  and i’ll do everything i just said .
have you played me ?
anyway ,  how are you ,  jessica ?
if ,  my dearest father ,  you have put the wild waters into this fury by your magic ,  stop them .
show them in .
yes ,  good fool .
anyway ,  i have to say goodbye to you now .
speak, is it missing?
are you backing away in fear ?
you gave an excellent performance .
even if marrying her meant i died .
it doesn’t matter if it’s in tune so long as it’s loud enough .
then there is the count palatine.
please, good mercutio, let's go home.
edmund is dead ,  my lord .
amen to that !
please ,  don’t speak to him .
look here upon this picture and on this one, the representation of two brothers.
you would fight with a man if he had one more whisker or one less whisker in his beard than you have in your beard .
there ,  take my fool’s cap .
no ,  if you’re ever late like this again ,  i’ll refuse to see you .
any trick that works is good for me .
was it you that was always plotting to kill him ?
we’ll cool the mixture with baboon blood .
ever since you lost yours .
you rascal !
only i have spoke with someone who saw him die ,  and he reported that he confessed his treasons very frankly; he begged your highness for pardon; and he seemed very sorry .
come, come, you answer me stupidly.
approach ,  you vicious fates !
what !
it is .
i will do anything ,  nerissa ,  before i’ll be married to a sponge .
surrender ,  dog !
it’s better to be with the dead, whom we have sent to their peace to gain our peace, than to lie on a bed, torturing of the mind in a restless frenzy.
i have a pretty good ear for music .
let’s be disciplined and not delay ,  because tomorrow is a busy day .
no; they were well at peace when i did leave them .
are you going to pay the eight shillings i won from you in a bet ?
a pestilence on him for a crazy rogue !
yes ,  to smell pork; to eat in the temple that your prophet ,  the nazarene ,  conjured the devil into .
good night then ,  casca .
you and your meaner fellows performed your last jobs very well ,  and i must use you in another similar trick .
to get what you want ,  you need to get cassio out of the way .
she is our principal demand—one of the first points of the treaty .
yes ,  my good lord .
what do you want ,  laertes ,  that i shall not my offer before you ask ?
that’s it !
if i find an opportunity ,  i will give him a piece of my mind .
start without me .
o, pitiful day that i was ever born!
send your man away .
that's not the tune .
i haven’t done anything to you .
you are welcome; take your place.
you know ,  antonio ,  how much i have wasted my money by putting on a fancier appearance than my small funds could support; i don’t come to you now to ask that you forgive my debts ,  because my chief concern is to make good on these great debts which my behavior ,  sometimes reckless and wasteful ,  has left me broke .
there ,  gentle hermia ,  i may marry you; and the sharp athenian law cannot follow us to that place .
they’re coming .
give me your hand ,  and take my magic cloak from me . —so: lie there my magic . —wipe your eyes; have comfort .
this poor virgin isn’t much to look at ,  sir ,  but she’s mine .
the black rooster ,  so black of hue ,  with orange - tawny bill ,  the thrush with his note so true ,  the wren with little quill .
show yourself in the form of a sigh .
yes ,  very bad .
i’m afraid the people are going to choose caesar for their king .
we’re two lions born on the same day in the same litter ,  and i’m the older and more terrible .
so i, wall, have discharged my part; and, being done, wall goes away like this.
read the will .
i must tell you then .
i’ll come with you .
by mary, that “marry” is what i want to talk about.
take good care of him .
and how does your happiness advance your own good fortune ?
your  i mean my daughter is my flesh and blood .
it is the lark that sings so out of tune ,  straining to sing horrible songs and unpleasing notes .
i respect the soul very much ,  so i disagree with his belief .
armed, my lord.
it’s the same kind of guy who got you upset and made you suspect i’d cheated on you with the moor .
and then pyramus showed up .
away ,  you black giant !
what’s the matter ?
did you kill him ,  then ?
doesn’t it go well ?
be patient ,  because you’re staying with me .
who said that ?
no ,  not tonight .
can your man keep a secret?
i never heard so loud a voice issue from such an empty heart .
fortune is merry ,  and in this mood will give us anything .
for the love of god ,  be patient with him .
well ,  sir .
i know the burden of hosting him is both an honor and a trouble ,  but that doesn’t mean it’s not a trouble just the same .
i served mark antony ,  who was the commander most worthy of my services .
nothing that i know for sure ,  but a lot that i’m afraid might happen .
how can that be ?
peace ,  oh !
question it ,  horatio .
she has ,  and in that decision ,  is wasting her looks and charms; for beauty ,  starved with this woman’s severity ,  cuts beauty off from all posterity .
then, lord have mercy on me!
if you leave like this ,  my dear ,  i won’t ever use my sword again .
farewell.
yes ,  he knew about it the whole time .
come with me ,  please .
death lies on her like an untimely frost on the sweetest flower in all the fields.
i do beg you ,  although i am ,  perhaps ,  vicious in my guess ,  as i confess it is a bad habit of mine to look deeply into wrongs ,  and to find faults that aren’t by my jealousy ,  that your wisdom still would take no notice from one that so imperfectly imagines things ,  or create a problem for yourself out of his scattered and unsure observations .
i won’t serve him: he’s not valiant .
i am glad this batch of would - be husbands are so reasonable; because there isn’t one of them that i am not foolishly in love with his very absence ,  and i pray god grant them a fair departure .
hello there ,  good sirs .
don’t talk to me ,  emilia; i cannot weep ,  and i don’t have any answers ,  except what should go by water .
tell me to run now, and i’ll do impossible things, yes, and get the better of them.
ensign, go with them; you know the place best.
how is it that they travel?
goodbye .
i have no gift for the one and no strength for the other ,  though i have the gift of strength .
yes sir ,  i’m fairly witty .
oh ,  if only i were a man !
i’m telling you ,  your husband .
where should they come?
didn’t you see her play with the palm of his hand ?
i’ll meet you at the ferry .
pretending ?
i’ll be back soon ,  and if i haven’t brought you anything to eat ,  i will give you permission to die .
i don’t feel so well ,  but i won’t stop .
madam ,  you have to go to your uncle’s .
advancement to some scaffold ,  to lose their heads .
tonight she is shut up in her room ,  alone with her sadness .
shall i go get your nightgown?
he’s welcome too .
now am i dead, now am i fled; my soul is in the sky.
out here everybody can see us .
i don’t think so .
yes ,  mousetraps to catch fools .
go now and ask where money can be found ,  and i will too ,  and i will not object to borrowing it on my account or in my name .
be wise ,  and go home .
oh ,  go away !
you have the sacred power to cure both of us .
what did popilius lena say ?
what, not even to pray?
all you gods, in general meeting, take away her power, break all the spokes and curved rims from her wheel, and bowl the hub of the wheel down the hill of heaven, as low as you can to kill the fiends!
who doesn’t know he’s dead ?
o, help me here!
oh ,  jew !
if he is ready now ,  i am too ,  now or whenever ,  provided that i am so able as i am now .
we are men, my liege.
king stephen was a worthy peer, his breeches only cost him a dollar; he held them six cents all too expensive, with that he called the calm tailor.
no ,  not like before .
she’s so good at sewing ,  and a wonderful musician .
let me see her.
goodbye .
it may be ,  very likely .
yes, madam, only to return again tonight.
you agree now that we’re not imagining this ,  don’t you ?
there’s a picture of me inside .
he gives biondello  here comes baptista .
here is the will ,  and under caesar's seal .
but since the affairs of men are always uncertain ,  let’s think about the worst that may happen .
i’ve promised to make everything right .
he is called ensign pistol .
praise in departing .
yes ,  sir ,  we hope so .
that’s how flimsy and unreal pleasure is .
i would’ve been happy if the whole army had had sex with her ,  the lowest - ranking grunts and all ,  as long as i didn’t know anything about it .
what, do you make us musicians?
if i could beg others to change their minds ,  begging would convince me ,  too .
then she comes to me, and with wild looks, asks me to devise some means to get her of this second marriage, or right there, in my cell, she would kill herself.
my heart feels like it’s about to explode .
are you up ?
i'll show you the best springs; i'll pluck you berries; i'll fish for you, and get you enough wood.
and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than another christian.
follow my voice; we won’t test your manhood here .
welcome ,  gentlemen .
it’s not good for your peace or your wellbeing ,  or for my manhood ,  honesty ,  or wisdom to let you know my thoughts .
kind souls, what, do you weep when you only see our caesar's clothes wounded?
no ,  follow him now ,  before he divulges the prank and ruins everything .
o dear account !
i would rather tell you what to be afraid of more than what i am afraid of ,  for i’m always caesar .
sings.
madam, i will.
what time is it ?
good night ,  pompey .
don’t stay to question what happened, because the guard is coming.
you aren’t wood ,  you aren’t stones ,  you are men; and ,  being men ,  hearing the will of caesar ,  it will inflame you; it will make you crazy .
time and happiness can run through the roughest day .
death and damnation !
speak to us .
i defy your solemn appeal ,  and i here arrest you as a felon .
and like similar forecasters of fierce events ,  as the advance team before the fates ,  and prologue to the omen coming on ,  heaven and earth have together demonstrated to our country and countrymen .
in which predicament, i say, you stand; because it appears by this obvious proceeding that indirectly, and directly too, you have schemed against the very life of the defendant; and you have incurred the danger that i just read to you.
casca, i can tell by your voice.
you there ,  sir ,  come here please .
i hope to god it’s something political ,  like you think ,  and not jealousy involving you .
from our brother monarch ,  the king of england ?
i cannot speak about this .
wasn’t that nobly done?
always note ,  lucilius ,  when love begins to sicken and decay ,  it uses a stiff ,  cold ritual .
alas ,  poor rogue !
who is her mother?
what else is it?
take out your sword and come on .
angelo ,  the jeweler .
if arguing makes us sweat ,  the proof of it will turn to redder drops .
brutus, a word with you.
please ,  sir ,  be patient .
why did i get married ?
to tell you that you shall see me at philippi.
we know you have a job to do ,  brakenbury ,  and we’ll do what you say .
we’re at your service ,  my lord .
i am glad he’s coming ,  however he’s dressed .
whew !
pompey has a strong navy .
thinking ,  my lord ?  ”  my god ,  you keep repeating everything i say as if you were thinking something too horrible to say out loud .
we give out the medicine for the sickly commonwealth, and with him we pour, into our country's purge, each drop of us.
peter quince— what do you say ,  bully bottom ?
two months ago, there was a gentleman from normandy here, i’ve seen myself, and served against the french, and they can do well on horseback, but this gallant had witchcraft in it.
i’m sure he’s been kidnapped .
oh ,  it’s horrible of her .
why ,  i will fight with him upon this theme until my eyelids will no longer blink .
i wasn’t invited because they like me .
i am one ,  my lord .
if he becomes pale ,  i know what to do .
i wish the night were here now!
goodly lord, what a wit-snapper are you!
which is either a fool or a nothing .
right now i’m away from home and i can’t provide you with proper care .
that villain ,  romeo .
i’m not sure about that .
i had forgotten about you.
who can prosecute me for it ?
what concerns ourselves shall be the last thing considered .
that is what my master antony says .
i swear i never hated you or your father !
play the kind of music that puts people to sleep .
i go ,  and it’s done; the bell invites me .
nothing at all ,  yet all that i see is .
is my lord angry ?
hell and night must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.
from the highest to the lowest of you ,  i bid you a hearty welcome .
true ,  ”  she said ,   “ a fine little one .  ”   “ no ,  ”  i said ,   “ a huge wit .  ”   “ right ,  ”  she said ,   “ a hugely awful one .  ”   “ no ,  ”  i said ,   “ he has a good wit .  ”   “ exactly ,  ”  she said ,   “ it’s good and mild; it doesn’t hurt anyone .  ”   “ no ,  ”  i said ,   “ benedick is wise .  ”   “ he is certainly ,  ”  she said ,   she cried a lot at that ,  and said she didn’t care .
i wouldn’t do that for the whole wide world .
holy gonzalo ,  honorable man ,  my eyes ,  even sociable to the show of your eyes ,  cry like yours .
stop, daughter.
farewell ,  good strato .
provoke him so that he will; because even out of that, i will make these men of cyprus rebel, whose character won’t come back to their original calmness unless cassio is replaced.
o ,  for two special reasons ,  which may to you ,  perhaps ,  seem a bit cowardly ,  but yet to me they are strong .
farewell and hurry to do your duty.
he and his daughter are captured .
i’m doing so .
how dare you serve it to me this way !
but i wish i could say that’s the last time he’ll do it !
he ,  when he hears of her ,  cannot refrain from excessive laughter .
and then she brought me up ,  and i thank her for that ,  too .
it would be good for you to do so much for charity .
come on, you are as hot as any fellow in your mood as anyone else in italy; and you are soon moved to be moody, and soon moody to be moved.
quiet ,  quiet ,  iras .
o ,  she says nothing ,  sir ,  but weeps and weeps; and now falls on her bed; and then starts up ,  and calls tybalt ,  and then cries over romeo ,  and then falls down again .
you want me to say what i’m thinking ?
fit the action to the word ,  the word to the action ,  with this special rule ,  that you don’t overstep the simplicity of being natural ,  for anything so overdone is not the purpose of playing ,  whose end ,  both at the first and now ,  was and is ,  to hold ,  as it were ,  the mirror up to nature ,  to show truth in reality ,  scorn her falseness ,  and his form and force to the very age and body of the time .
putting the juice of it on sleeping eyelids will make or man or woman madly fall in love with the next live creature that it sees .
saint francis ,  help me !
o my ,  where are you ?
you’re too stubborn and too strange to your friend that loves you .
where are the noble hastings ,  rivers ,  vaughan ,  grey ?
those cowardly ,  gigantic sides of beef have been responsible for many of your family members getting eaten as a condiment on beef .
my lord ,  he asks that you please visit him tomorrow or the next day .
drunk!
none of us .
the sin of my ingratitude even now was heavy on me .
go !
what news ,  man ?
come on ,  men !
surely there's some magic in this handkerchief; i am very unhappy at the loss of it.
he who chooses me must give and risk all he has .  ”  you’d have to be more attractive for me to give or risk anything for you .
thank you kindly .
what did he do that made him flee this land ?
everything’s ready .
this is as strange a thing as i have ever looked on .
when this advice i give is free and honest, calculated to his thinking, and, indeed, the way to win the moor again?
he’s or taken or slain.
he’s getting crazy with expectation !
i’ve spent five years in the remotest parts of greece and roaming all over asia .
and i followed him because i loved him .
i’ll come back .
you’ll take the mustard or you’ll get no beef from grumio .
don’t touch me: i am not stephano, but a cramp.
oh ,  shut up !
a crow without feathers ?
she's a very exquisite lady .
oh ,  my good master !
prince dauphin ,  you’ll stay with me in rouen .
he won’t get the better of me .
tell me what i want to know .
and in part him, but,” you may say, “not very well.
doesn’t it look like the king?
o ,  my daughter !
o cassius ,  brutus gave the word too early ,  who ,  having some advantage on octavius ,  took it too eagerly .
quiet !
now ,  catesby ,  what does your lord say to my request ?
my pleading is out of tune right now; my lord is not my lord; and i wouldn’t know him if he were he in favor as changed in disposition .
who pleaded with me to pardon
i’d heard about my brother’s plan and have been subtly trying to change his mind ,  but he’s determined .
old cassius ,  be still !
what “half the story,” sir?
chop off his head .
on a night like this !
but i thank god that i failed in my scheme ,  and i rejoice in paying the penalty ,  as i beg god and you to pardon me .
all that's spoken is marred .
my lord ,  you used to like me .
what undertaking, popilius?
lead the way.
yes ,  my lord .
and ,  just in time ,  here comes the sweaty lord .
why, what a king is this!
i wish my eyes would shut up my thoughts by closing: i think they want to do so.
thanks ,  rosencrantz and worthy guildenstern .
why ,  so did you .
that it did, sir, in the very throat of me; only i paid him back for his lie; and, i think, being too strong for him, though he knocked me off my feet a few times, i still made a joke to throw him off.
cassio ,  walk around here .
yes ,  but not to die yet .
and this .
so is lysander .
this is just what the letter said .
please let me go .
observe his inclinations in yourself.
my brother’s love ,  the devil ,  and my own anger made me do it .
you’ll find me ready enough to do that ,  sir ,  if you give me a reason .
please come with me .
and so the jew may lawfully claim a pound of flesh nearest the merchant’s heart ,  to be cut off by him . —but please have mercy .
not now ,  my sweet desdemona .
you seem to think no one outside of your bedroom knows what you wish .
no ,  before the sun advances his burning eye ,  to cheer the day and to dry night's dank dew ,  i must fill up this ,  our cage made of reeds with baleful weeds and precious - juiced flowers .
well then ,  you must be in love .
did you see that ?
the games are finished ,  and caesar is returning .
by my sword ,  beatrice ,  you love me .
it’s the same with men .
and then to escape drowning three times, and to be in fear for my life with the edge of a feather bed; here are simple escapes.
laertes ,  i must share your grief ,  or you deny me my rights .
transparent helena !
i saw you at count orsino’s recently .
she’s accustomed to it, to seem to washing her hands in this way.
no, honestly.
fine ,  ok !
god be with you !
good morning ,  gentlemen .
no ,  not at all ,  sir .
oh ,  on my soul ,  my cousin has been slandered falsely !
you mean the sun !
my noble uncle ,  do you know the cause ?
speak ,  i command you .
why ,  you—loss on loss !
the devil is at my elbow and tempts me, saying to me, “gobbo, launcelot gobbo, good launcelot” or “good gobbo” or “good launcelot gobbo, use your legs, get going, run away.” my conscience says, “no; be careful, honest launcelot, be careful, honest gobbo” or, as i said before, “honest launcelot gobbo, don’t run; scorn running with your heels.” well, the most courageous devil tells me to pack.
with a needle and thread .
i would gladly forget it, but, o, it presses into my memory like damned guilty deeds press into sinners' minds.
what, and my old venetian friend, salanio!
you resent my friends' rise in society ,  and my own .
you are kind.
i even knew the tailor who made the disguise she wore when she ran off .
virtue itself doesn’t aim at lying deeds .
i am starving in his service; you can count my ribs with your fingers.
but there are two more hard things, that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber, because, as you know, pyramus and thisbe meet by moonlight.
if there are any ,  speak ,  for it is he whom i have offended .
my doors were locked and i was shut out ,  right ?
o ,  where ?
no, good my lord, this courtesy is not the right answer.
hail!
o spartan dog, more evil than anguish, hunger, or the sea!
shall they see us?
i need to be alone with my thoughts for a while and don’t want any company .
it’s a shame that we eagles are caged up while the vultures are free to do whatever they please .
either you or i ,  or both of us ,  must go with him .
how are you out of breath, when you have breath to say to me that you are out of breath?
pompey ,  you cannot frighten us with your navy .
and you ,  sister ?
aren’t you lady olivia’s fool ?
oh ,  dear !
it’s nobler to leap in ourselves than dawdle until they push us .
i bet my life some evil busybody ,  some meddling ,  lying jerk made up this rumor to get some position .
in that case ,  there’s reason to hope a man’s memory may outlive him by six months .
our hostess sits in her chair of state, but, when it’s time, we will require her welcome.
nothing .
it is the nature of the climate .
look how it steals away!
a fig for a mask!
i’ll vouch for that .
in truth ,  i think you wouldn’t .
o you vile king ,  give me my father !
unlawfully ?
is it possible ?
shall i come down?
think like that ,  and you’ll manage to get honey out of a common weed and find a moral lesson in the devil himself .
he’ll do whatever hastings does .
if you interrupt it ,  he’ll foam at the mouth and go crazy .
i don’t wish to have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body.
but if you would be willing to accept circumstantial evidence as proof ,  we can get that .
who’s that calling so loud ?
his face showed more sorrow than anger.
i think you’re my mirror ,  not my brother .
seven days and seven nights ?
i’ve gone through the whole forest, but i haven’t found any athenian on whose eyes i might pour this flower's juice to stir his love.
i’m sure i’ll never get married in the way my sisters say they’re married ,  loving their father only .
they will ,  nerissa ,  but we’ll be disguised as men .
i like her more than i can say .
how long do you intend to stay within this forest ?
but let him come.
you’ve said what you have to say now .
sweet bassanio ,  my ships have all sunk ,  my creditors grow cruel ,  my funds very low ,  my promise to pay to the jew is in default; and since ,  in paying it ,  it is impossible for me to live ,  all debts between you and me are canceled if i might only see you at my death .
now, hamlet, where's polonius?
i wonder if the lion is going to speak .
why ,  what’s the matter with him ?
i do .
will you play this recorder ?
heaven is here, where juliet lives, and every cat, and dog, and little mouse, every unworthy thing, live here in heaven, and may look on her; but romeo may not.
you men of cyprus ,  bend your knees .
what impossible subject will he make easy next ?
birnam wood .
what’s the matter with you ?
why are you so strong and good ?
he waits very nearby, to know your answer, whether you'll admit him.
what is it ?
you’re most welcome .
and she can cry ,  sir—oh ,  how she can cry !
that’s old news .
what treasure did he have, my lord?
good monster !
the table’s full .
oh ,  it’s horrible ,  horrible ,  so horrible !
he’s too argumentative for me .
what, sir, not in bed yet?
i’m at your service .
where is that knocking coming from ?
her mood must be pitied .
i will not be afraid of death and ruin, until birnam forest come to dunsinane.
it will be our fault, who should’ve kept this mad young man on a short leash, restrained, and out of society.
what ladybird !
myself ?
that’s true .
oh, that a lady of one man refused should therefore be abused by another!
my lord ,  my lord !
well then ,  now .
father, come; i'll take my leave of the jew in the twinkling of an eye.
here’s money for you .
most ungrateful maid!
what infinite peace do king’s give up that private men enjoy ?
i saw mark antony offer him a crown;—yet it wasn’t a crown either ,  it was one of these large hats;—and ,  as i told you ,  he pushed it aside once .
then i have to assume you don’t want him to be king .
and you still say that exile is not death!
you take my life when you take away my means of making a living .
what, ho!
you wrong me every way ,  you wrong me ,  brutus .
we must not .
look ,  my cousin is whispering to claudio that she loves him .
hasn’t he ,  gentlemen ?
i’ll tell you before you have to ask me again .
are they as popular as they used to be when i lived in the city ?
where are you ,  demetrius ,  you arrogant bastard ?
what an idiotic place this world is .
if he asks to see me ,  tell him i’m sick and went to bed .
don’t run away—stay where you are .
quiet for awhile . —robin ,  take off this head .
iago ,  look carefully about the town ,  and silence those whom this vile brawl has upset .
good-night.
i hear some noise.
i drink to the general joy of the whole table ,  and to our dear friend banquo ,  whom we miss .
why should i stay— in this vile world ?
her speech is nothing, yet the random use of it moves the listeners to collect them, they aim at making sense of it, and mix her words up fit to their own ideas, which, as her winks and nods and gestures as she speaks, would indeed make someone think there might be clear, though nothing for sure, yet very unhappily.
please ,  let me review the contract .
at nine .
if either of you were a prince’s son ,  and you were imprisoned as i am now ,  and two murderers like yourselves came to you—wouldn’t you beg for your life ?
but, good lieutenant, is your general married?
o lying woman !
if duncan bleeds i’ll paint the servants' faces with his blood .
shush ,  sir ,  please !
i’ll drink it if i like .
but it’s no treason for an englishman to cut off a french crown—a head ,  i mean—and tomorrow the king himself will do some snipping .
please ,  tell us .
well, ok.
good night ,  my lord .
devilish macbeth has sought to win me into his power by many of these thoughts ,  and modest wisdom keeps me from over - believing haste .
poor lady ,  she'll run mad when she misses it .
moonshine and lion are left to bury the dead .
let’s go.
we will talk about this more of this tomorrow.
tell me, good my friend, what torch is over there that wastes giving his light to grubs and eyeless skulls?
don’t you have any modesty, any maiden shame, any touch of bashfulness?
o valiant cousin!
i saw her burial in her relative's vault ,  and the i rushed to tell you .
thank you .
not a chance !
young men will do it if they come to it, by god, they are to blame.
order him to advance his forces first thing ,  and we’ll follow .
shylock ,  although i never lend or borrow with interest ,  i’m willing to break that habit to help a friend in need .
o, it is too true!
montano and myself were talking ,  and there comes a fellow crying out for help ,  with cassio following him with determined sword ,  to kill him .
before the bat has flown his hidden flight, before black hecate's summons are heard, before the dung beetle, with his drowsy hums, rings the bell to end the night, there shall be done a deed of dreadful note.
oh ,  if only my smiles could inspire love as effectively as your frowns !
it’s not because i don’t love you .
they would like me to be as familiar with men’s pockets as their gloves and handkerchiefs ,  which goes against my manhood ,  because to take something from another’s pocket and put it into my own is plain stealing .
isn’t that he who lies on the ground?
political business is bothering him ,  and he’s just taking it out on you .
judging from his appearance ,  i bet he can tell us the latest news about the revolt .
tell him i have moved my lord on his behalf, and hope all will be well.
there's a poor piece of gold for you .
don’t learn from him, emilia, although he is your husband.
it was a sweet wedding, and we were doing so well on our return.
to do this is within the scope of man's wit, and therefore, i will attempt to do it.
isn’t someone waiting for me ?
how are you ,  lorenzo ?
the next man who swings his sword must not care about his life ,  because the instant he strikes ,  he dies .
i was sent for a rope !
grab down benches .
she will  a pimp !
he’s not your man .
quick, quick!
well ,  you have given me great comfort .
no ,  come on ,  one more time .
i suspect some foul play .
how ?
tomorrow is wednesday.
go to the church .
i have heard that many of the best - respected men in rome , — except immortal caesar ! — speak about brutus ,  and groaning underneath the political burden of this age ,  have wished that noble brutus could see what they see .
stay ,  though you kill me ,  sweet demetrius .
wake up all my servants !
who’s taken over the watch for you ?
did you plan cassio’s death with him ?
horns ?
answer; answer.
why ,  what's that to you ?
but if you believe everything they say ,  you won’t be saved by half of what they do .
what ,  are you busy ,  hello ?
don’t say what you’re thinking ,  and don’t be too quick to act on what you think .
here's some good stuff !
oh no !
but when i got here ,  some minutes before the time of her waking up ,  here the noble paris lay and true romeo ,  both untimely dead .
with whom ?
leave me alone for a minute .
now, this overacting, or lateness, though it make the ignorant laugh, can only make the experienced grieve, in whose opinion, you must outdo a whole theatre of other audiences in your performance.
nothing, good sir, but for you to help mr. cobweb scratch my head.
since you’re letting me leave ,  i’ll hurry .
you’ll get revenge later.
the king and queen and all are coming down .
this relief only makes your sickly days longer .
we have two hours to get ready .
oh !
how can i avoid committing a sin, unless the husband that heaven sent me dies?
if you have me ,  you have me now at my worst; and if you have me ,  you’ll appreciate me better and better .
i wish my eyes would shut up my thoughts by closing: i think they want to do so .
i will accept no apology until experts in matters of honor show me how to make peace with you without staining my own reputation in doing so .
ophelia ,  come here . —   i hear him coming .
here comes the furious tybalt back again.
we killed those men and sent them to rest in peace so that we could gain our own peace .
ho ,  awake !
here ,  peter quince .
good lord, you do me wrong— good lord, you do— to court me in such disdainful manner.
you can’t take anything from me that i care less about—except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life .
what do you say, hugh rebeck?
without his fish eggs, like a dried herring.
let four captains bear hamlet like a soldier to the platform, for he was likely, had he been king, to have proved most royal, and, for his passage, the soldiers' music and the rites of war will speak loudly for him.
or was it a blessing that we did?
i just meant that our hearts are joined ,  so we can almost think of them as one heart .
what’s that noise ?
give me my mask .
halt ,  and identify yourself .
god bless you, sir.
if you say that ,  you’ll only be telling the truth .
tell your master there is no sound basis for his worries .
my countrymen , — peace !
it is locked in my memory ,  and you yourself shall keep the key of it .
i have forgotten your name ,  but you were well cast in the role and played it convincingly .
another hit .
therefore we’ll have about half a dozen friends to the wedding ,  and that’s it .
when a woman is virtuous ,  talents like these just make her better .
but ,  indeed ,  if you don’t find him within this month ,  you will smell him as you go up the stairs into the lobby .
oh me!
well, we shall figure him out.
keep this man safe ,  give him all kindness; i would rather have such men as my friends than enemies .
have you any else to tell me ?
they are from norway ,  sir .
good night, mother.
what is my nation ?
if she cannot beg ,  i can order .
no man must know .  ”  what comes after that ?
amen ,  with all my heart !
i found her adjusting the crown on her dead mistress .
don’t you realize the duke has also banished me ,  his daughter ?
you don’t know why we came to visit you— yes ,  and so unexpectedly ,  at night .
i doubt it ,  since you weren’t even three at the time .
watch me like a hawk .
ah ,  good father ,  you see the heavens ,  troubled with man's acting ,  threaten his bloody stage .
they must lie there.
that banishment is worse than the murder of ten thousand tybalts .
i’m divided between two friends who are determined to kill each other .
dat it not be de custom pour les ladies of france—i cannot tell vat is  to kiss .
and he’s rubbed himself with perfume .
i won’t sort you with the rest of my servants ,  because ,  to speak to you like an honest man ,  i am most dreadfully attended .
yes .
i’ve got nothing to do with you .
guard the door.
good lieutenant ,  is your general married ?
indeed !
why ,  what did i do ?
if you weren’t a man ,  then what kind of animal were you when you first told me you wanted to do this ?
i also heard that your daughter spent eighty ducats in genoa one night .
your grandsons will neigh to you like horses .
has there ever been any age since noah and the flood that was not famous because of more than one man ?
oh pain !
the ship was already sailing .
i don’t know what you mean ,  madam .
if a man were answering the doors of hell ,  he would grow old turning the key .
day and night ,  hour after hour ,  all the time ,  at work ,  at play ,  alone ,  in company ,  my top priority has always been to find her a husband .
don’t argue against it .
but wait a minute !
oh ,  noise ?
that pretty boy ,  claudio ?
he pretended that everything was fine until the moment they were exchanging vows ,  and then—with public accusation ,  blatant slander ,  pure hatred—oh god ,  if only i were a man !
friends ,  romans ,  countrymen ,  give me your attention .
if there were two men like you ,  pretty soon there’d be none because the two of you would kill each other .
come ,  knock and enter; and ,  as soon as we get in ,  every man start running .
oh ,  do not wish one more !
poor lady, she'll run mad when she misses it.
come on ,  good fellow ,  help me into that armor you’re carrying .
he is gone ,  he is gone ,  and we go away crying .
the king won’t live ,  i hope .
i wonder if the lion’s going to talk .
hurry up ,  or i’ll smack you on the ears with my sword before you have yours drawn .
how are you ,  your highness ?
my darling ,  when i gave my love to you ,  i told you that all the wealth i had ran within my veins—that i have noble blood ,  but no money .
as wicked as i am ,  they were slaughtered because of me ,  not because of anything they did .
what soldiers ,  milk - face ?
i have such deadly drugs ,  but mantua's law gives the death penalty to anybody who sells them .
farewell .
there the pairs of faithful lovers shall be married, with theseus, all in jollity.
i order you, get far away from me and do not haunt me thus.
i never charge interest.
when i freed you from slavery ,  didn’t you swear to do this when i asked you ?
now ,  i’m very pleased with it being outdoors ,  but in its not being at the court ,  it is boring .
i’m biting my thumb .
i don’t know ,  sir .
i could imagine he’s divine ,  since i never saw anything so noble - looking on earth before .
a good fool .
i beg you ,  daughter ,  don’t make me crazy .
we’ve finished our business .
to tell you the truth ,  i was just going to your house .
yes ,  it is .
yes ,  and for that you die .
welcome, good robin.
is it  “ chaste in word and action ”  ?
and you have mercy on me too !
now all my enemies are at my mercy .
young people often lose their self - control even without any help from others .
a good dinner for guests is more like one that’s bought rather than given, if the host doesn’t make frequent toasts.
carry your master out .
we’ve got some words of wisdom to mull over .
a lioness has given birth in the streets; and graves have opened up and given up their dead; fierce fiery warriors fight on the clouds ,  in ranks and squadrons and right forms of war ,  which drizzled blood on the capitol; the noise of battle screaming into the air ,  horses neighed ,  and dying men groaned;and ghosts shrieked and squealed around the streets .
if she is black and also has a wit ,  she'll find a white that will her blackness fit .
and don’t be angry with me ,  gentle brutus; i wish i were a common comedian ,  or used to urinating on my friendship with ordinary oaths to every new opponent; if you know that i show false friendship to some men ,  and hug them hard and after that ,  tell lies about them ,  or if you know that i profess myself at feasts to be friends with the entire place ,  then think about me dangerous .
i have to tell you ,  i thought you were a much kinder person than this .
you counterfeit ,  you puppet ,  you !
madam ,  please be patient .
what do you think of marching to philippi immediately ?
oh what a curse marriage is !
so go ahead and cry .
drown yourself !
or to be naked with her friend in bed an hour or more, not meaning any harm?
let caesar do whatever he wants .
maybe ?
your life has had honor in it .
o comfortable friar !
you can’t talk about something that you don’t feel .
is your marriage here ?
pay attention to the music .
you should be ashamed of yourself ,  satan ,  you liar !
if you ever did hold me in your heart, stay away from happy things for a while, and, in this harsh world, draw your breath in pain to tell my story.
we’re lucky that rome is rid of him .
o you stupid boy!
that's strange .
why ,  don’t you see it ?
my lord ?
if you get what you want and you’re still not happy ,  you’ve spent everything and gained nothing .
to bed ,  to bed ,  to bed .
romeo ,  come out .
nurse !
his soldiers were destroyed while we are all surrounded by antony .
i charge you, go with me.
but still, i say, if suggestion and strong circumstances which lead directly to the door of truth, will give you satisfaction, you may have it.
gouge out his eyes !
since my dear soul controlled her choice, and could recognize men of truth, her choice has taken you for herself.
goodbye ,  my lord .
offer yourself more respect ,  or—not to beat this word to death—you’ll offer me the chance to be a laughing - stock .
follow me ,  then ,  to a clear place .
sir ,  please ,  don’t be angry .
murder!
it shall go to the barber's ,  to be cut with your beard .
he will divorce you; or apply to you what restraint and grievance the law will allow him to do, with all his might to do it.
i bought an oil of a mountebank ,  so mortal that ,  only dip a knife in it ,  where it draws blood ,  no super - potion so rare ,  collected from all antidotes under the moon that have always worked ,  can save the thing from death and this is only with a scratch .
if you must damn yourself ,  do it a more delicate way than drowning .
these corpses suggest mayhem .
you gave money to me ?
what does that mean ?
but if you do fight, sir, then i will fight you.
mighty duke ,  look here and see a man who’s been treated most terribly !
well; if any man in italy has a better table that offers to swear on a book ,  i shall have good luck .
i come to answer your best requests; is it to fly, to swim, to dive into the fire, to ride on the curled clouds; give ariel and all his quality your strong requests.
cousins ,  you all have work to do . —oh ,  i beg your pardon .
only to watch that title become worthless ,  as her mother has .
what a king claudius is !
you have got more hair on your chin than dobbin my thrill - horse has on his tail .
a man who achieves more in war than his captain does becomes his captain’s rival .
i’ll see what being sorry does .
thank you ,  sir .
that’ll keep them from being afraid .
i feel awful for my cousin .
edward’s healing touch is a miracle that i have seen him perform many times during my stay in england .
very humbly, therefore, bowing to your state, i’d like proper provisions for my wife, proper respect for housing and subsidy, with such accommodation and suitable company as is equal with her breeding.
well ,  then ,  here it is: you must prepare yourself for his knife .
who builds stronger than a mason, a shipbuilder, or a carpenter?
are you there, trusty fellow?
i can hardly keep myself from throwing things at him .
have they returned?
a most ridiculous monster ,  to make a a poor drunkard amazing !
briefly ,  i live by the capitol .
here, sweet lord, at your service.
go on ,  i’ll follow you .
to choke carries it away.
hold on a moment ,  and listen to my advice .
a spirit ?
oh ,  please ,  i’m begging you ,  don’t mention him again .
i always loved you .
i owe you a lot ,  and like a spoiled kid i’ve lost what i owe you .
this is i ,  hamlet the dane .
i am dying ,  cleopatra ,  dying .
what’s this ?
then make a circle around caesar’s corpse ,  and let me show you the man who made this will .
now romeo is beloved ,  and loves again ,  both of them bewitched by the charm of looks; but he must complain to his supposed enemy ,  and she must steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks .
i don’t like games; i lack some part of that quick spirit that antony has .
ah ,  soldier !
didn’t i once have four, or five, women once, that took care of me?
double, double, toil and trouble; fire, burn; and caldron, bubble.
i may as well be hanged as to tell how it happened.
to the storm] blow your wind until you burst ,  so long as there’s room enough for us .
he turned away twice and almost left him there .
but ,  goodbye !
i’m very sick ,  too .
ah, good father, you see the heavens, troubled with man's acting, threaten his bloody stage.
oh ,  it was a monstrous roar ,  to make the earth tremble !
no, i will.
now please leave me alone .
the wall, i think, being sensible, should curse again.
if i were your average fool ,  or if i made my feelings for you worthless by making the same promises of friendship to everybody ,  or if you’d seen me first flattering men ,  hugging them tightly ,  and later slandering them behind their backs ,  or if you hear that i drunkenly declare friendship at banquets with all the rabble ,  only then ,  of course ,  go ahead and assume i’m dangerous .
macbeth!
he will ,  if he lives to be a man .
it is the lady that pyramus loves.
what then ?
your brothers ?
i really believe your cousin was falsely accused .
bridegroom ?
the moor's abused by some very villainous rogue, some base notorious rogue, some scurvy fellow.
good and noble young man ,  don’t mess with someone who’s desperate .
indeed i’ll never be satisfied with romeo till i see him dead.
help ,  help ,  ho !
what miserable praise have you for her that's ugly and foolish ?
not me .
come ,  lieutenant ,  i have a bottle of wine; and here outside are a number of cyprus gents that would happily drink a round to the health of black othello .
he who chooses me will get as much as he deserves .  ”  as much as he deserves—wait a minute there ,  morocco ,  and consider your own value with a level head .
caesar ,  i will .
for me ,  three thousand dollars .
more than you wish for us waits in your royal walks, your board, your bed!
i also think that there would be hands uplifted in my defense ,  and here ,  from gracious england ,  i have the offer of goodly thousands .
no ,  you should tell him to hold his hands !
don’t ask why .
come ,  come with me ,  and we will be quick ,  because ,  by your permission ,  you shall not stay alone until holy church incorporates the two of you into one .
so he is now in getting any bold or noble job done; however ,  he pretends to be slow in nature .
aren’t you dead yet ?
get out ,  you dark - skinned gypsy !
because pyramus is a good - looking man ,  the most handsome man that you could find on a summer’s day ,  a lovely gentlemanly man .
it must be a farmer that hanged himself on the expectation of a large crop .
that’s very strange .
then up he rose and put on his clothes ,  and opened the chamber door ,  let in the maid that rejected a maid and never left again .
but will i wear these honors for only a day or will i enjoy them for a long time ?
shut up ,  you troublemaker ,  no more of that .
oh bloody richard !
nothing ,  messala .
how can we find out more?
what makes you say that ?
i do see a kind of hope ,  which requires a plan as desperate as that event we want to prevent .
come here ,  tyrrel .
and you shall speak after my speech is ended on the same platform where i’m going to be.
then he is dead ?
to work for you ,  sir .
i don’t think he has been marked for drowning: his complexion is perfect for being hanged .
o, here i will set up my everlasting rest, and shake off the bonds of unlucky stars from my world-wearied body.
or it’s bottomless ,  at least: pour affection in one end ,  and it runs out the other .
you must be patient a while .
i’ll come too .
go ahead ,  i’ll yield to your power .
be my witness ,  oh you blessed moon .
o brave monster !
go quickly to church; i must go another way ,  to fetch a ladder ,  by the which your love must climb to a bird's nest soon ,  when it is dark .
i love you as a child should love her father ,  neither more nor less .
send there to see.
did you know him ?
i cannot “ok,” man and it is not very well.
o ,  come in ,  emilia .
o damned iago!
i grant indeed it hasn’t seemed so, and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment.
this isn’t brutus, friend, but, i assure you, a prize no less worthy.
and what's the news ,  good cousin lodovico ?
no, my noble lord, it is not for you.
smile ,  then ,  on this beautiful union .
where’s your master ,  dromio ?
o my dear brother!
murder !
that’s a lame threat from a toy gun ,  a poor individual’s private displeasure with a monarch .
am i the motive for these tears ,  my lord ?
don’t speak, don’t reply, don’t answer me.
well ,  juliet ,  i’ll sleep with you tonight .
gamble for lead !
tybalt ,  do you lie there in your bloody sheet ?
tell me .
try being sick ,  great greatness ,  and see if ceremony can cure you !
don’t worry about me .
arise, black vengeance, from your hollow hell!
these violent delights have violent ends ,  and in their triumph die ,  like fire and powder ,  which ,  as they kiss ,  consume each other .
a fox you’ve trapped and such a daughter should both be slaughtered ,  if my fool’s cap is worth a rope to bind them .
you can push my buttons ,  but you can’t play me for a fool .
somebody’s knocking .
if your wife’s not a madwoman ,  and you tell her how much i deserve this ring ,  she won’t stay angry at you forever if you give it to me .
my sword will talk for me .
oh righteous god ,  how can i thank you enough that this meat - eating mutt preys on his mother’s children and forces her to join others in their grief !
it had a violent beginning ,  and you shall see an answerable separation— put only money in your purse . —these moors are changeable in their wills .
it’s too bad .
ride ,  ride ,  messala ,  ride ,  and give these dispatches to our forces on the other side .
at least two hours past .
curse my very heart, i think you will be happy in this second marriage, for it surpasses your first.
then, his thisbe must be answered, and my creation comes back to the rehearsal.
nice to see you .
come ,  this way to the rowboat .
god forbid !
let’s go ,  we’ll obey you .
i wish your undertaking today may thrive .
what ,  are you moaning on about your toothache ?
this iago is extremely honest and good ,  and he knows a lot about human behavior .
their unfortunate deaths put an end to their parents' feud .
i hate him because he is a christian; but more ,  because ,  in his low simplicity ,  he lends out money free ,  and brings down the rate of interest with us here in venice .
what a tunneler !
outside ,  my lord ,  guarded ,  to know what you want .
is it your dear friend that is in trouble like this ?
i’ll give you frets !  ”  with that ,  she clobbers me with the lute so that my head goes right through ,
but first ,  i have to tell you that desdemona’s completely in love with him .
that deceived man lives in bliss who ,  certain of his fate ,  doesn’t love who wronged him; but o ,  what damned stories he tells about who loves ,  but doubts ,  suspects ,  but strongly loves !
we’ll watch a whole play tomorrow .
quiet!
where do you come from ?
yes, you did.
meet me later at the fortress.
don’t you have any mouth on land ?
do you love me ?
now, by the stock and honor of my kin, i don’t think it’s a sin to strike him dead.
there's not one of them ,  except for his house i don’t keep a bribed servant .
how can we avoid what the gods want to happen ?
hey ,  daughter !
let her not walk in the sun .
no ,  sure ,  i cannot believe that he would steal away so guiltily ,  seeing you coming .
fathers ,  from now on don’t believe you can know your daughters' minds from the way you see them act .
they’re just flattering me .
it is my soul that calls my name.
he’d stay up all night and all day if he didn’t drink himself to sleep .
all may be well.
yes  , madam .
she instructs me well .
but ships are only boards of wood, sailors only men; there are land-rats and water rats, land-thieves and water-thieves,—i mean pirates,—and then there is the peril of waters, winds, and rocks.
gallus ,  you go with him .
you think he’s special ,  since you’ve only ever seen him and caliban .
this morning ,  they’ve flown away and in their place are ravens ,  crows ,  and kites ,  flying over our heads and looking down on us ,  as though we were sickly prey .
what wound ever healed except bit by bit?
bassanio ,  the best thing you can do is to keep living and write an epitaph for my gravestone .
how is the queen?
nice to see you again ,  horatio—that is your name ,  right ?
o, how my heart hates to hear his name, and i can’t present myself to him, to vent the love i had for my cousin tybalt upon the body of the man that has slaughtered him!
all right ,  we’ll see you at dinnertime .
are we all here ?
what did he say when he regained consciousness ?
but how ?
my lord ,  that would dishonor him .
is there a murderer here ?
does caesar come to the capitol tomorrow ?
he never gave orders for their deaths .
and see that you write these few precepts in your memory.
farewell ,  good salisbury; and may good luck go with you .
i see these lords so much admire at this meeting that they eat their own common sense, and scarcely think their eyes tell them the truth.
or the antidote for stinging plants or hollyhocks.
but more of that tomorrow, when together with that matter, we will have political issues that need us jointly.
i guess it’s only one man—no big deal .
she’s beautiful ,  if my eyes can see .
i bet he slipped away and went home to bed .
be patient, i have to rest.
i beg you, have some charity for my wit; don’t think it is so unwholesome.
your love will use it to climb up to your window while it’s dark .
despised substance of the most divine show !
we will do the same .
i’ll fall at his feet and lie there until my pleading and crying convinces the duke to come here and force my husband to leave this abbey .
make sure everyone knows that .
how is the world going now, sir?
the servants of capulet, and your servants, were fighting before i got there.
indeed ,  my child ,  at saint peter’s church early thursday morning ,  the gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman count paris will happily make you a joyful bride .
i never heard so musical a noise, such sweet thunder.
what was the last cry for?
o happy dagger!
did you see the king today ,  lord derby ?
some people kiss shadows .
i am sick at heart, when i behold seyton, i say!- this attack will give me the throne forever or unseat me now.
you barely have the heart to tell me ,  so you can’t possibly have the nerve to do it .
a dream itself is but a shadow.
lay off ,  already !
one of our ships has reported that it saw most of their fleet shipwrecked .
but how ?
into my grave?
and does it wake up now, hung over from what it so freely committed to?
no guard ?
are we bothering you ?
romeo!
you’re a smart guy .
for the enemy ,  see—and you can explain this to the duke ,  see—has dug its own tunnels four yards below ours .
i would not kill your soul.
the more you beat me ,  the more i’ll love you .
no one but his enemies.
i wish you and your scarred self had convinced me to wage our last battle on land .
i’m afraid you’ll come to me again for ransom .
i will play the swan ,  and die in music .
noble banquo ,  who has deserved no less ,  and must not be known to have done less than macbeth ,  let me infold you in my arms and stop you to my heart .
the present time is like a woman in labor ,  each minute giving birth to some piece of news .
two of the brightest stars in the whole sky had to go away on business ,  and they’re asking her eyes to twinkle in their places until they return .
that’s how someone who’s been murdered should look ,  and that’s how i look .
i’m telling you ,  it’s hers .
i see that you are poor .
where are they ?
no ,  ma'am .
today shall always be remembered as a holy day .
let him be the devil if he wants to ,  i don’t care .
what had he done to you?
you see ,  we’re not alone in our unhappiness .
but fire also gives off light ,  and fire will burn you .
let’s go to our bedroom .
we will .
yes ,  as much pleasure as one might take in choking a bird at knifepoint .
i will ,  my lord .
i would’ve been happy if the entire camp, pioneers and all, had tasted her sweet body, as long as i didn’t know about it.
and get out of my sight!
stop the play.
i did ,  malvolio ?
o !
do all your conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  spoils ,  boil down to this ?
shut the doors on him, that he may play the fool nowhere else but in his own house.
but here comes a scoundrel who says he saw me at the marketplace and that i beat on him ,  told him i’d given him a thousand marks in gold ,  and then lied about my wife and my house .
how is it, brother?
will you dine with me tomorrow ?
let thunder flatten the spherical world ,  crack open all the molds from which nature forms human beings ,  and spill all the seeds from which ungrateful humans grow !
lucillius and titinius ,  order the commanders to have the men camp for the night .
don’t worry about me not swearing enough .
where are they ?
i surrender your dukedom and beg you to forgive me all my crimes .
tell me once more what you say .
why he more than another ?
so ,  goodbye .
your answer to that.
there are no tricks in plain and simple trust, but hollow men, like horses very eager about something, make gallant show and promises of their spirit, but, when they are supposed to endure a spur that will make them bleed, they are humbled, and, like false, worthless horses disappear from the fight.
it’s the last command i shall ever give you .
let me know how this nasty fight began, who started it, and he that is guilty of this offense, even if he is my twin brother, both born at the same time, he’ll be finished with me.
macbeth.
hermia’s not holding onto me anymore .
i used to be the man in the moon a long time ago .
there ,  my lord .
what was i saying ?
he would drown the stage with tears and split the audience’s with horrid speech ,  make the guilty crazy ,  and shock the innocent ,  confuse the ignorant ,  and amaze ,  indeed ,  the very faculties of eyes and ears .
here’s the water ,  right ?
i remember well where i should be ,  and here i am .
if my heart's dear love, well, don’t swear.
on the condition that your sister’s son ,  publius ,  also must die ,  mark antony .
how can you say these things ,  for shame ,  titania ,  give me a little more credit than that with hippolyta ,  knowing i know all about your love for theseus ?
lend me your hand .
there's a poor piece of gold for you.
if the world were mine ,  i’d give it all up—everything except demetrius—to be you .
let me have a small vial of poison, such quickly acting medicine that it will disperse itself throughout all the veins in order that the life-weary taker may fall dead, and that the body may suffocate as violently as speedy gunpowder hurries a bullet from a gun barrel.
my lord, i don’t know what i should think.
ay, in the temple, in the town, the field, you do something to me.
you’re sure full of smooth answers .
it’s not possible .
aside .
come here ,  leonato .
and what is this useless ceremony of kings ?
the town is empty; on the seashore ranks of people stand ,  and they cry ,   " a sail !
so hangs ,  and lolls ,  and weeps on me; so hales and pulls me .
my lord, i won’t.
o, i’m very much afraid that some evil, unlucky thing has happened.
what should we say her ,  where our fate ,  hidden in a very small carpenter’s hole ,  may rush up and seize us ?
that’s not fair .
but isn’t there a sequel that follows this mother's surprise?
take a trumpet ,  herald .
ready .
i heard nothing .
i will move them to storms of tears; i will rouse their pity in some measure .
and, sowing the seeds of it in the ocean, create more islands.
that’s too bad ,  because i spent a long time memorizing it ,  and it’s poetic .
i swear to you by my virginity at age twelve ,  i already told her to come .
a bloody deed!
no ,  no ,  i can’t ,  really .
no ,  let me praise you while i want to .
behold!
if you struggle to bring down a tyrant ,  you will sleep peacefully when the tyrant is killed .
preference goes by who you know and who likes you ,  and not by old system ,  where each second person took the first’s place .
i am sorry for you; you are here to answer a rock-like opponent, an inhuman wretch, incapable of pity, void and empty of any ounce of mercy.
patience ,  good sir .
i’d rather see you having fun ,  because we have friends coming who want to have fun .
cassio ,  how did you come by that handkerchief that was my wife's ?
who is it that cried !
doesn’t the day break here ?
and, as you said, and wisely it was said, it is proper that some beside his mother, since nature makes them subjective, should overhear the speech objectively.
welcome ,  my lord .
my child, my only life!
yes .
where’s my notebook ? —it’s a good idea for me to write down that one can smile and smile ,  and be a villain .
the poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree ,  sing all a green willow; her hand on her breast ,  her head on her knee ,  sing willow ,  willow ,  willow .
we’ll bury him ,  and then we’ll commit acts as brave and fine as any romans ,  and make death proud to take us .
lord ,  how you’ve changed !
the british troops are coming near .
it will be out ,  it will be out .
the food inside is warm ,  but you’re out here freezing .
oh ,  will you leave me alone in the dark ?
once more i come to ask you ,  king harry ,  if you’re ready to negotiate your ransom before your certain defeat .
that sound you heard was the  it was the lark ,  the bird that sings at dawn ,  not the nightingale .
how exactly have i offended you ?
we follow in your orbit ,  and you have the power to move us .
then caesar and he will always be united .
why do we wrap the gentleman in our more rare breath?
even though i’m mad ,  i won’t bite him .
o serpent heart ,  hidden by a handsome face !
and there comes caesar .
i’d swear to you on my soul that she’s a good ,  honest person ,  sir .
the man in the moon !
well, i hope you see things are done well there, adieu!
i willingly accept your offer and put my future in your hands .
if i were to die now, i could die very happy; because, i’m afraid, my soul is so absolutely content, that no other comfort like this one can follow unknown death.
king stephen was a worthy peer ,  his breeches only cost him a dollar; he held them six cents all too expensive ,  with that he called the calm tailor .
i think this applause is for some new honors awarded to caesar .
what ,  juliet !
you are dromio ,  you are my servant ,  and you are yourself .
i’ve spelled it out for you clearly .
three thousand ducats .
so ,  good - bye .
yes, he spoke in greek.
yes ,  honest .
she lies there, like the flower that she was, her virginity taken by him.
first ,  forward to the temple: after dinner your choice shall be made .
no ,  caesar ,  we will respond to their attack .
and i saw her do it .
what’s wrong with me, that every noise makes me jump?
but it has bay windows that are as transparent as stone walls ,  and the upper windows facing south - north are as clear as coal .
there will be rain tonight .
portia ,  are you really gone ?
how can you ever hope for mercy for yourself ,  when you don’t give any now ?
then i salute you with this royal title: long live richard ,  england’s worthy king !
in fact ,  the real nightmare had only just begun .
for none neither.
as for your coming in to dinner ,  just do what you feel is right .
they all fell asleep together ,  as if they’d planned it .
but still ,  my uncle - father and aunt - mother have got the wrong idea .
lights, lights, lights!
for shame, you generals!
o lamentable day !
i found this pinned to my tent this morning .
i am the greatest ,  able to do least ,  yet most suspected ,  as the time and place cast suspicion on me as guilty of this sad murder; and here i stand ,  both to accuse and free myself ,  condemned and myself excused .
actors can’t keep a secret .
pull off my beard ?
i have an interest in your hate's proceeding ,  my blood for your rude brawls lies there bleeding; but i'll punish you with so strong a fine that you shall all repent my loss .
i’ll tell you what to do .
no, it is casca, one who agrees with our attempts.
get away from me !
indeed ,  we have many good days to look forward to !
or did i dream it?
this is your negligence .
how are you, good lord?
goodbye to the horses and the trumpets and the drums ,  the flute and the splendid banners ,  and all those proud displays and pageantry of war !
come here .
will you go with me?
it was i ,  in fact ,  whom you promised to strike .
it is true .
lord ,  how it looks about !
i’m afraid so, i promise you.
can he spit out trinculos ?
if you could hurt us, your swords are now too heavy for your strengths, and won’t be lifted up.
it’s too hot .
murder has no tongue ,  but miraculously it still finds a way to speak .
o, i’m sorry i was so angry that i did kill them.
that was me ,  but it’s not me— i’m not ashamed to tell you what i once was ,  since i’m so happy to have since converted .
give me some ink and paper .
being surrounded like this with evil plans ,  before i could start thinking about it ,  before they could execute the plan ,  i sat myself down ,  though up a new order ,  wrote it just like the original .
how low am i, you painted maypole?
easy ,  petruchio .
i wouldn’t do it for a nice ring ,  or fine linen ,  or pretty gowns or petticoats or hats .
is that anything to think about now ?
ha!
what do you say ?
we can only learn that the confident tyrant still stays in dunsinane ,  and will put up with our settling down before it .
in the meantime ,  i wrote to romeo that he should come home ,  this bad night ,  to help to take her from her borrowed grave ,  at the time that the potion would wear off .
please ,  follow straight after me .
your children shall be kings.
your plantain - leaf is excellent for that .
what if this mixture doesn’t work at all?
as far as i can see ,  it burns in the capulet’s tomb .
no ,  but tonight is an exception; you shall not judge me by what we do tonight .
observe his inclinations in yourself .
i definitely will .
and since our quarrel is with his future behavior ,  not what he does now ,  i must frame the argument like this: if his position is furthered ,  his character will fulfill these predictions .
then i wish you were so honest a man.
thieves!
no ,  that i don’t remember .
and leave you out ?
why, so; since you’ve gone, i am a man again.
one of us will stay and stand guard .
though you can swim like a duck ,  you are made like a goose .
if you go outside ,  arm yourself .
although you deserve praise ,  applause ,  and love ,  right now the duke misconstrues everything you’ve done .
it beckons you to go away with it, as if it had something to say to you alone.
listen ,  may i have a word with you ?
i don’t like it .
gone ,  sir .
that’s him .
well ,  i maybe i’ll see you; because i would very gladly speak with you .
why then, it is like this: you must prepare your chest for his knife.
well then ,  saint ,  let lips do what hands do .
how ?
then you shall be his insurance .
claudio ?
it doesn’t matter where ,  so long as it’s not here .
if it’s okay with you ,  you should not press your grievances any further ,  but realize that the current situation should be enough to reconcile you .
be near at hand; i mess it up .
these evils you repeat upon yourself have banished me from scotland.
and even though you were brought up as a gentleman ,  you patiently tolerated more hardships than savages could withstand .
ok, let’s sit down, and listen to bernardo speak of this.
a very ribbon in the cap of youth ,  but necessary too ,  for youth doesn’t look less well in the fun and reckless clothes that it wears than old age settles for his black furs and woolens ,  showing health and seriousness .
look up moonshine ,  look up moonshine !
put your hat to its right use .
it fell on a little western flower ,  which used to be white as milk but now has turned purple from being wounded by the arrow of love .
how is it with you?
therefore you must run ,  noble cassius .
i don’t know whether he fought on norway’s side ,  or if he secretly aided the rebels ,  or if he fought with both of our enemies .
it’s late .
welcome here .
they really wish they were somewhere else ,  but they want to descend on us ,  looking fierce so we’ll think they’re brave .
shame on you; i’ve already run out of patience with you all .
i asked you again ,  then you scratched your head ,  and stamped your foot very impatiently .
what is the matter ?
goodbye.
my lord !
such ghosts and goblins in my life, that, on my arrival, without any delay, no, not even to wait for the grinding of the axe, my head should be chopped off.
the queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit, has sent me to you.
i’ll conjure him as if i were summoning a spirit .
the more’s the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends .
oh ,  has it come to this ?
piss off !
the same indeed; a very valiant fellow.
would you do such a deed for all the world?
it’s him ,  it’s him .
let my sorrow have the upper hand .
are you going to hide and watch them having sex ?
i wish your loyalty were as foolish .
and patches of righteousness .
cicero one!
and let these deceitful fiends be believed no more ,  that trick us with double meanings ,  that keep the word of promise to our ears ,  and break it to our hopes !
dear gods ,  bless this couple ,  since you’re the ones who have shown us the path that led us here .
he’s very serious ,  which is right for someone in mourning like me .
ay, darn it, you must because you must understand he only goes to see a noise that he heard, and will come again.
you’re in your own kingdom ,  sir .
well ,  may peace be with you .
are these ,  i beg you ,  wind instruments ?
i’ll do what i can to make you even more comfortable .
no ,  that doesn’t follow .
what were you before this ?
in the meantime ,  be patient .
i know the glove is a glove .
isn’t that him heading this way ?
be careful not to fall in .
so that’s what i’ll do ,  not because i love her but because i’ll get something out of it .
just give me a torch.
i won’t swear whether this is or is not true .
i wish you’d won the  something bad in that letter is making bassanio turn pale .
killing men in the dark ?
do you agree that ferdinand must have drowned ?
still ,  i’d hate to see my former dreams return .
sir ,  i’m puzzled by what you just said .
look how cheerful my mother is ,  only two hours after my father died .
you wronged yourself to write me letters in such a case.
please, let me go from here; i am not well; send the deed after me and i’ll sign it.
come ,  nerissa .
beautiful is disgustingly filthy ,  and disgustingly filthy is beautiful .
the clock has struck three .
good - bye .
stop thinking about it, because nature, the moon, does not grow alone in strength and size, but as this temple grows, the inward duty of the mind and soul grows wide along with the rest.
foreign savages who eat their own children for dinner will be as close to my heart as you ,  ex - daughter of mine .
it was about to say something when the rooster crowed .
his heart used to burst the buckles on his breastplate in great fights ,  but now he’s lost all temperance and dedicates his heart to satisfying the lust of an egyptian whore .
it is better as it is.
he doesn’t hear ,  he doesn’t make noise ,  he doesn’t move; the fool is dead ,  and i must conjure him up !
a murderer should look like you do ,  so pale and grim .
i beg you ,  go with me .
your flashes of laughter that always make the audience roar?
where is my lovely bride ?
she will give him a written invitation to some supper.
have you completely forgotten ?
give me my sword .
no more yet about this; because it is a story of day by day, not a story for a breakfast or befitting this first meeting.
you’ll find out everything in due time .
hey !
next month he’ll stay with us .
oh ,  heaven help us !
the heavens forbid anything but our loves and comforts should increase even as our days grow long!
let’s go .
if i owe you anything ,  i’ll pay you in clubbings .
though i have far more reason ,  i don’t have as much energy to curse you .
titinius ,  if you love me ,  get on your horse and spur him on until he’s brought you to those troops and back again ,  so that i can find out whether those troops are friends or enemies .
thank you for saying that ,  your worship ,  but we’re just the poor duke’s officers .
she can’t even imagine what  “ love ”  is .
i wouldn’t either ,  by daylight .
but i’ll linger .
do you recognize the handwriting ?
and to hell with drowning yourself !
god be with you .
i do, mark antony.
my eyes itch—is that an omen i’ll be crying soon ?
alas, my lord, what do you mean by that?
give me your arm .
none but that ugly evil of mistrust ,  which makes me fear the enjoying of my love: there may as well be friendship and life between snow and fire as evil and my love .
not a second more .
thomas grey ,  knight ,  of northumberland ,  i arrest you for high treason .
you know sometimes he walks for hours and hours here in the lobby.
come with me tonight ,  and you’ll see a man enter her bedroom chamber—even tonight ,  the night before her wedding .
in the meantime, please think i am too occupied with my fears, as there are strong reasons to fear i am, and consider her innocent, i beg your honor.
or, as it were perfumed by a swamp.
i tell you ,  charles ,  he’s the stubbornest young fellow in france: overly ambitious ,  jealous of other people’s good qualities ,  and a traitor against me ,  his own blood brother .
don’t pardon that .
to get used to the life you’ll most likely be leading soon ,  get rid of your low - class trappings .
and the queen too ,  and they should be here presently .
i don’t dare come down—forgive me ,  my lord—i don’t dare ,  for fear of capture .
i’m waiting here for the general ,  and i don’t want him to see me with a woman .
hold on!
what do you mean by this ?
i will walk around and mingle with all of you ,  playing the humble host .
send a message to his brother .
he’s had a ship wrecked coming from tripolis .
after you .
if you will please show us so much gentry and goodwill as to spend your time with us a while, to help us find out what is troubling him, your visit shall receive such thanks as only a king can give.
but it is still doubtful whether caesar will come out today or not ,  because he’s grown superstitious lately ,  quite a distance from the main opinion he once held about fantasy ,  dreams ,  and ceremonies .
what about the boy malcolm ?
now that’s done ,  i’m going to walk on the fortification walls .
god have mercy on his soul!
if that your love is honorable, your intention marriage, send me word tomorrow, by one that i'll get to come to you, where and what time you will marry me, and i’ll lay all my fortunes at your feet, and follow you, my lord, throughout the world.
how much salt water was thrown away in waste, to season love, that did not taste love!
my fingers itch .
before the bat flies through the castle ,  and before the dung beetle makes his little humming noise to tell us it’s nighttime ,  a dreadful deed will be done .
you think i’m a sponge ,  my lord ?
mr. antonio!
then if we lose this battle ,  you’ll be willing to be led in chains through the streets of rome ?
well ,  do so: don’t let me take him then; because ,  if i do ,  i'll break the young clerk's pen .
before you can say ,   “ come ”  and  “ go ,  ”  and breathe twice ,  and cry  “ so ,  so ,  ”  each one ,  tripping on his toe ,  will be here with tricks and pranks .
hello ,  roderigo !
no ,  go ahead and take my life .
i’ll drink later .
to the storm] blow your wind until you burst, so long as there’s room enough for us.
i’d say i was  “ out of my element ,  ”  but that phrase is overused ,  so i’ll say i’m  “ out of my air .  ”
i’m warning you .
where has caesar deserved your loves like this?
yes, very well, my lord.
speak .
safe ,  antony; brutus is safe enough .
he’s as smart as they come ,  but just a jester .
it is said they ate each other .
listen ,  she loved her cousin tybalt dearly ,  and so did i .
if you say so ,  go away ,  and prove it too .
i rather think you haven’t sought her help ,  by whose soft grace ,  i have received her royal aid for a similar loss ,  and i am at peace .
my will alone, nothing else in the world.
one, gentlewoman, that god has made for himself to damage.
first rehearse your song from memory ,  and make sure each note is pretty .
you are about as much of a thinker as worm’s meat is a nice steak .
really, madam, i hear nothing.
yes ,  if i know the letters and the language .
then i must be your lady; but i also know that, when you have stolen away from fairy-land, and, taking the shape of corin, the shepherd, you have sat all day, playing on pipes of corn, and speaking love poems to amorous phillida.
it’s too frightened to look at itself .
go about your business, wench; serve god.
quick ,  quick .
it’s as common for us old people to assume we know more than we do as for young people to be too wild and crazy .
what unusual reason brings her here?
what do you want ?
your husband lies dead there ,  and paris too .
we ,  hermia ,  like two artificial gods ,  have created both one flower with our needles ,  both on one sampler ,  sitting on one cushion ,  both warbling of one song ,  both in one key; as if our hands ,  our sides ,  voices ,  and minds ,  had been incorporated into one .
go after him and try to calm him down a little .
look ,  he can become invisible .
a lover ,  or a tyrant ?
when caesar says, "do this," i do it.
quiet ,  children ,  quiet .
are you crazy ?
at supper .
i don’t feel any urge to see a more handsome man than this one .
there are some such, no doubt.
i will roar so well that it will do any man's heart good to hear me; i will roar so well that i will make the duke say, “let him roar again, let him roar again.” if you should do it too terribly, you would so frighten the duchess and the ladies, that they would scream; and that would be enough to hang us all.
ladies whose toes are not plagued with corns will have a dance with you.
what’s the matter ,  dear ?
you agreed to send me troops and weapons when i needed them .
for her i’ll be strange and condescending ,  and i’ll put on my yellow stockings and crisscross laces right away .
the wooing is like a scottish jig: hot and fast and full of whimsy and illusion .
you call that ranting ?
that’s all i want ,  and i’ll do anything to accomplish it .
he’s running bareheaded ,  calling for the end of the world ,  out there on a night like this ,  when even savage animals ravenous with hunger crawl under cover and hide .
what is the matter ,  my lord ?
bassanio ,  let him have the ring .
did you see anything ?
what a sigh that is !
i was told so ,  but i will send .
here ,  bashful cunning !
once at sardis and once last night ,  here in philippi fields .
and all for nothing !
alas ,  who knows ?
no one has heard anything about him .
condemned villain, i arrest you.
isn’t it past two o'clock ?
i can tell by his voice that this man is a montague .
it is not destiny’s fault ,  but our own faults ,  that we’re slaves .
tell the king that i wish to speak with him, for a few words.
mistress !
such a wonderful father - in - law and wife make this place a paradise .
you are banished away from verona .
get going; away!
thinking ,  my lord ?
there’s a similar mark on her arm .
we thank your honor .
he can’t speak ,  my lord .
prison, my lord!
i’d be just as happy if you broke his neck as his finger .
do you think alexander the great looked like this when he was buried ?
he has always loved cordelia best ,  and his bad judgment in disowning her now is obvious .
iago is very honest.
it is a tale told by an idiot ,  full of sound and fury ,  signifying nothing .
goodbye.
what is your pleasure ?
i did, my lord, and i have reason for it.
i don’t doubt your wisdom .
you dog ,  you peasant !
don’t you hope your children shall be kings ,  when those things that gave the baron of cawdor to me promised no less to your children ?
i'll fetch them, sir.
be kind and polite to this gentleman .
this deed will be very welcome to lorenzo .
that was my turquoise ring !
i pay you because you’re poor ,  not because you want me to buy this .
thank you .
tell us what happened today that put caesar in such a serious mood .
o ,  your only dancer !
speak softly .
am i in france ?
so now everyone will point at me and say ,   “ look ,  there goes the wife of that comedian petruchio—if he could be bothered to marry the pathetic thing !  ”
what do you mean by that?
go ahead .
shylock ,  they’re offering you three times the money you lent .
unfaithful to me !
god will take revenge .
yes, damn it, it was, and he pushed it aside three times, every time more gently than the last, and at each pushing aside, my honest neighbors shouted.
here comes the messenger with your niece .
that word  “ judgment ”  makes me feel a bit guilty .
that’s for sure .
it’s bad news when a country is ruled by a child .
know him ?
as edgar ,  i’m nothing at all .
soul of rome!
he’s late .
thank you ,  sir .
that !
i didn’t call for you .
caesar ,  beware of brutus .
what do you say to a calf’s foot ?
please ,  sir ,  be kind to me and tell me .
flies may do this ,  when i must fly from this .
i told you ,  someone’s at the gate .
no, my brutus; you’ve got some sick worry on your mind, which, by the right and virtue of my place, i ought to know of, and, on my knees, i order you, by my once commended beauty, by all your vows of love, and that marriage vow which joined us and made us one, that you tell me, yourself, your half of me, why you’re so depressed, and what men have come to you tonight, because there have been some six or seven here, who hid their faces even from darkness.
where is he ?
i’ll tell him the news .
i’ll go ,  sir ,  and i won’t bother you .
look how your servants wait on you ,  each one ready to do whatever you command .
by my heel ,  i care not .
how can it be otherwise?
i had only one child ,  one poor child ,  one poor and loving child ,  the one thing i had to rejoice and comfort myself ,  and cruel death has stolen it from me !
tear him apart for his bad verses ,  tear him apart for his bad verses .
your honor, in that sense, may call him a man.
why there, there, there, there!
i’m hoping for better .
no more about drowning ,  do you hear ?
wake up ,  wake up ,  ring a bell and wake up all the snoring citizens .
none, man: all are idle whores and rogues.
who is to blame for this: antony or i ?
all hail ,  macbeth !
you started a fight with a man who coughed in the street because he woke up a dog that was sleeping in the sun .
if you steal my money ,  you’re just stealing trash .
the very same.
just as if they were perfectly loyal and faithful .
hail !
no ,  no more than is reasonable .
tell me so i can be sure ,  though i swear i recognize your voice .
the life ”  ?
o, yes, my lord.
what is the reason for this terrible summons?
please ,  peace .
tell us where it is, that we may take it from there, and carry it to the chapel.
there's another .
bring him before us.
hurry up and get to your horse .
now romeo is beloved, and loves again, both of them bewitched by the charm of looks; but he must complain to his supposed enemy, and she must steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.
i’ve done no more to caesar than you will do to me .
my clerk has some comforting news for you ,  too .
now i’m in a great hurry ,  as i’m sure you can see .
faith ,  that was not good; still i wish i knew if that stroke would prove to be the worst !
he’ll just think an idiot wrote it .
like her ?
i know your position .
isn’t parchment made of sheep-skins?
what ,  you mean kid actors ?
and tell her ,  listen to me ,  on wednesday—wait—what day is today ?
well said .
o proud death ,  what feast is being held in your eternal cell ,  that you have killed so many princes so bloodily all at the same time ?
no more .
you lover of that damned whore ,  you’re talking to me of  “ ifs ”  ?
bring it after me.
the sad spectacle of the wreck, which touched the very virtue of compassion in you, i have ordered so safely with similar use of my magic that there is no soul— no, not so much damage as to one hair happened to any creature on the vessel which you heard cry, which you saw sink.
he will come right away.
in truth, i think you wouldn’t.
a friend .
cheer up ,  antonio !
god pardon him !
i’m not feeling well—that’s all .
i never did regret doing good ,  and i won’t now; because in companions that talk and waste the time together ,  whose souls bear an equal burden of love ,  there must be a sharing of things like proportion of limbs ,  manners ,  and spirit ,  which makes me think that this antonio ,  being the closest friend of my lord ,  must be like my lord .
macbeth !
all covered with sweet flowers ,  which drowned in tears went to the grave with showers of true love .
is he dead?
soak your hands in blood and gore ,  since you have cut the thread of his life with scissors .
they stared at us in confusion .
my employer is as good as yours .
but you’re keeping a hundred knights here who are so disorderly ,  vulgar ,  and obnoxious that our noble court is starting to look like a noisy cheap hotel .
good old knight ,  gather them all together at my tent .
will i hear from you soon ?
i will do this deed before i lose my sense of purpose .
go play with yourself .
what do you want ?
ready, ready; and here's a marvelously convenient place for our rehearsal.
who will go with me ?
only dead for two months!
madam ,  i will .
oh ,  what a world this is ,  when even what is beautiful in a man poisons him !
isn’t my fortune just a little better than hers ?
o gentle lady, don’t ask me, because i am nothing if not critical.
are you sure we’re awake ?
stand away from the body .
i prefer to call it a  “ hanger .  ”  but anyway .
he gets up at nightfall and wanders around till dawn .
nymph, in your eyes may all my sins be remembered.
in both my eyes ,  he doubly sees himself ,  one in each eye; swear by your double self ,  and there's an oath to believe .
my dearest love ,  duncan is coming here tonight .
what woman wouldn’t be distressed ,  being lorded over by a handful of dust ?
in saving you i consider myself well paid .
you can’t get out of trouble by praying or crying ,  so don’t bother .
the silk came from sacred silkworms ,  and it was dyed with fluid made from embalmed virgins' hearts .
the air here is very sweet for us.
ask your husband if you doubt me .
i’m very glad about that .
give my love to my kind husband .
could you tell me how near the enemy is ?
away!
call him, good mercutio.
mine ache to think about it.
feeling the loss like this ,  i can’t help but weep for him forever .
come on, come on, you're drunk.
now ,  god help you ,  poor monkey !
yes ,  why not ,  my lord ?
please do this carefully, that he will be more in love with her than she is with him.
and what a beard trimmed like the general’s or a rough uniform will do among foaming mugs and brains washed with ale ,  you wouldn’t believe .
i’ll make you sing .
i am very uncomfortable ,  unfit for my own intentions .
just listen this once .
the king—whom i hope god will protect better than you would like—can’t get a minute’s rest without you bothering him with your outrageous complaints .
i must recount what you have been once a month ,  which you forget .
there are still some few odd lads missing from your company that you forget .
pay attention ,  pay attention ,  for such people die miserable .
thankfully ,  we have reason to cool our raging lusts .
what are you saying ,  mistress ?
we were somewhere where i couldn’t pick a fight with him ,  but i’ve decided to wear it in my cap until i see him again ,  whereupon i’ll give him a little piece of my mind .
good sir, be a man; do you think every bearded fellow that wears a harness may be driven by you?
sir, i obey the mandate, and will return to venice.
come on ,  what did romeo say ?
it must be a spirit .
you look angry .
we’ll be there .
o, no; he goes into mauritania, and takes the beautiful desdemona away with him, unless his living here can be delayed by some accident which no one can be so determined about removing of cassio.
there’s some gentleman out there . — good sir toby !
goodbye .
didn’t great julius bleed for justice's sake ?
get off the field ,  my lord .
what is this that rises like the heirs of a king, and wears upon his baby brow the golden crown of a king?
welcome ,  good friends .
what can you swear by now ?
the enemy comes on in a show full of noble daring; their bloody sign of battle is hung out ,  and something has to be done immediately .
is it possible?
as old and white - haired as you are ,  and you’re such a traitor ?
help !
and let him practice his music .
madam ,  you have made me speechless ,  only my blood in my veins speaks to you ,  and i am so confused just as there appears buzzing among a happy crowd after a well given speech by a beloved prince; where every piece ,  blended together ,  turns to something wild ,  expressed and not expressed ,  except for joy .
that's not true .
i admire your efforts ,  and all of you will share the rewards .
god have mercy on us !
but it can’t help either !
give this ring to my true knight ,  and bid him come to take his last farewell .
trust to it.
tonight ,  my lord ?
while you lie here snoring, open-eyed plotting takes his time.
i think so too .
they only feel the shadow of joy .
a strange fish!
o traitors ,  villains !
honestly ,  she is too ill - tempered .
pretty too!
come ,  is the bride ready to go to church ?
cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant only taste of death once .
what’s the matter ?
you shall remain a prisoner, until the nature of your crime is known to the venetian state.
i am too bold, she’s not speaking to me.
honey, cyprus will be very glad to see you; i have found great love among them.
fortune is merry, and in this mood will give us anything.
but two men complimenting each other is like two baboons getting together .
if you “re” us and “fa” us, you note us.
bite him to death, please.
i do hate
everything’s out of control .
the king and the prince are praying .
you torture me ,  tubal: it was my turquoise ring; i got from leah ,  my wife ,  when i was still single; i wouldn’t have traded it for a wilderness of monkeys .
let them marry your children !
lay her in the earth ,  and may violets spring from her fair and unpolluted flesh !
died two months ago and not forgotten yet ?
what did my man say ?
ah ,  poor ghost !
yes ,  my lord .
a tanner will last you nine years .
what was the philosopher pythagoras’s belief about wild birds ?
you’ll be my witness that i’ve been forced ,  as pompey was ,  to wager all of our freedoms on one battle .
prove you are worthy of your birth ,  which i do not doubt for a moment .
what minor god has come so near to making a woman?
god’s blood!, there is something more than natural in this, if philosophy could figure it out.
what is ,  my lord ?
i’ve had to acknowledge that he’s my son so many times that now i can do it without embarrassment .
how can it seem like i’m making fun of you ,  when my tears prove that i’m sincere ?
i kissed you before i killed you .
listen ,  dardanius .
none, brutus, none.
where is my wife ?
why, go to bed and sleep.
let’s hide and listen.
what need we fear who knows it ,  when none can call our power to account ?
if you were the noblest of your family ,  young man ,  you couldn’t die more honorably .
the man who was the baron still lives ,  only lives that life which he deserves to lose under the death penalty .
no ,  that’s not it ,  trust me .
aren’t you embarrassed ?
let me speak proudly: tell the constable we’re only workaday soldiers .
to celebrate a contract of true love, and to bestow some free gifts on the blessed lovers.
it is ,  my lord .
i’ll do whatever the king wants .
old montague is here ,  and he’s waving his sword around just to make me mad .
why he more than another?
if i could get my hands on you ,  i’d make you care .
nobody like that should be trusted .
you must go to parthia .
you’re lying .
i don’t find myself wanting to sleep.
everyone .
if that man ,  who’s made up of conflicts ,  becomes musical ,  then there must be something wrong with the universe .
only ,  for all this ,  when i shall tread upon the tyrant's head ,  or wear it on my sword ,  my poor country shall still have more vices than it had before ,  more suffer ,  and in more ways than ever before ,  by the man who shall succeed the king .
the hour of death is approaching .
my dear regan ,  your sister’s not worth anything .
what is the tyrant macbeth doing ?
what will you tell her, nurse?
you did.
we’ll chase ’em into their latrines .
how did you get this sober?
hey ,  lady !
and so farewell .
of all the strange things i’ve ever heard ,  it seems most strange to me that men fear death ,  given that death ,  which can’t be avoided ,  will come whenever it wants .
sound ,  music .
oh ,  ophelia ,  i’m bad at poetry .
i'll see it is done.
i’m not holding your hand ,  sir .
is that barnardo ?
you evil whore !
that’ll be fine .
i give him curses, but he gives me love.
where is your leather apron and your ruler ?
yes ,  i am the one .
serious vanity !
i remember him well ,  and my memory tells me that he deserves your praise .
in happy time.
not in love either ?
one; two; why ,  then it is time to do it .
could my good brother - in - law—a man to whom the
now as for the other thing, you do remember all the circumstances?
lysander !
if the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to balance another of sensuality, the blood and baseness of our natures would lead us to very preposterous conclusions.
then you were right on target .
don’t worry about me .
let this solemn melody comfort your fevered minds ,  which are now useless ,  seething inside your skulls . —all of you stand there in my spell . —
i know his trumpet .
excuse me.
did you give the finger to us ,  sir ?
we’re done for !
o life!
you must contradict me !
richard of york ,  how are you doing ,  my loving brother ?
why would you give birth to sinners ?
i’ve heard that too, and partly believe it.
the devil himself could not pronounce a title more hateful to my ear .
i don’t hold you, and yet i still see you!
that matter is answered directly .
what do you think will be the result of this storm ?
no .
yes ,  mother ,  but i wish i hadn’t .
where is your son ?
be  conrade !
i am glad it’s night so that you can’t see me, because i am very ashamed of my costume; but love is blind, and lovers cannot see the pretty mischief that they themselves commit, because, if they could, cupid himself would blush to see me transformed to a boy like this.
welcome ,  gentlemen !
judges ?
i be your mercy.
what has the governor of the town decided ?
the king is getting up .
i’m backed into a corner with nowhere to run .
richard loves neither me nor any of you .
say something !
i now give my opinion: hold it no longer; this is no fish, but an islander, that has lately been struck by lightning.
yes .
no, that's not so.
this is venice; my house is not a farm .
i could be convinced if i were like you .
o ,  still defend me ,  friends !
mine, sir.
why did you send me out ,  brave cassius ?
what’s that ?
as you go through the house, use the dead and drowsy fire to give glimmering light, every elf and fairy spirit hop as lightly as bird hops from a thorn: and sing this little song, following me, and dance it as you sing it.
servant, what was your master doing in this place?
have you given up so quickly on rosaline ,  whom you loved so much ?
and when i get my reward ,  i’ll get out of here .
i see a voice; now i’ll go to the chink, to spy if i can hear my thisbe's face.
oh ,  ”  he said ,   “ did you fall on your face ?
old montague is out there ,  and waves his blade in spite of me .
yes ,  my lord .
well ,  you’re not on target there .
i met the young man at lawrence’s cell .
or ,  if he wrote down his thoughts ,  give me his letter .
a god of a god ?
i think you’re an ass .
i’ll go along .
nym ,  what you say is true .
so all the work that oxen and farmers have done in plowing the fields has been for nothing ,  because the unripe grain has rotted before it was ripe .
he’s more of a soldier than a wise man .
it isn’t night whenever i see your face, so i don’t think it’s night, and this forest doesn’t lack worlds of company, for you, in my respect, are all the world.
you may think that i don’t love you .
we have to go out and talk to them .
and like mine ,  but i’m getting a little tired of it .
for god’s sake ,  my lord ,  let’s be sure to be part of the group that meets the prince .
just ignore him .
did these bones cost no more the making of them but to play at games with them ?
if you come to me after tomorrow and say ,   “ that’s my glove ,  ”  i swear by this hand ,  i will take it and give you a box on the ear .
use them according to your class .
yes ,  my lady .
answer me.
so take your last breath .
my lord ,  it shall is done .
if there isn’t a solution, i have the power to kill myself.
news from verona !
look ,  and you’ll see .
i had to hurry to my love ,  beautiful helena ,  who lights up the night better than all those fiery stars .
a foolish heart that i’m leaving behind here .
the man in the moon!
you speak like a green girl, ignorant in such dangerous circumstances.
so calm down .
that will never be.
i should always be wise .
murder ?
bring me his answers quickly .
i’ll read it to you .
i guess not—for good reason ,  as you’ll soon hear .
has he asked for me?
i'll show you the best springs; i'll pluck you berries; i'll fish for you ,  and get you enough wood .
when should the royal day be ?
that's strange.
what we want to do ,  we should do when we would ,  for this 'would' changes ,  and has stoppages and delays as many as there are voices ,  hands ,  accidents ,  and then this 'should' is like the sigh of a spendthrift ,  that hurts by easing up .
what a change this is !
when storms arrive early ,  you can expect the harvest will be damaged .
who are you ?
shall i include hell as well ?
and i beg you instantly to visit my too much changed son.
yes ,  sir ,  i’m here .
tell them so, decius.
one scene of it comes near the circumstances, which i have told you, of my father's death.
it was, so please your highness.
to think, my lord, if you do not delight in man, what a somber reception the players shall receive from you.
good !
proceed ,  moon .
this is the plague of important men—our wives betray us more than those of poor men .
what does this shouting mean?
i will live in your heart ,  die in your lap ,  and be buried in your eyes—and ,  what’s more ,  i will go with you to your uncle’s .
it’s not true .
now ,  good sweet nurse—oh lord ,  why do you look so sad ?
yes ,  she will .
come on ,  trinculo ,  let us sing .
there are ten thousand— geese ,  you idiot ?
i wish i could be as certain of a good dinner .
how does he love me ?
but i’ll see you soon .
i do not wish to be the villain that you may think ,  for the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp and the rich east to boot .
listen !
good countrymen ,  let me leave alone .
i assure you .
women ,  dress me like a queen .
didn’t you say something ?
i rescued that ungrateful boy next to you from drowning .
here comes catesby again .
o ,  that we could come by caesar's spirit then and not dismember caesar !
no ,  my good lord .
and before i remove this charm from her sight — because i have another herb that is the antidote — i'll make her give that boy to me .
i have been sexton here, man and boy, thirty years.
doors ,  open up for whoever is knocking !
does any man hate the thing he wouldn’t kill?
i am a very villain if i don’t.
the lover, just as crazy, sees helen of troy's beauty in an egyptian.
i cannot stay any longer.
sometimes i’ll turn into fire !
what villains have done this ?
ah, the immortal forward thrust!
near to her close and consecrated private place, while she was sleeping, a crew of actors, rude mechanicals, that work for bread near athenian shops, were met together to rehearse a play intended for great theseus' wedding day.
your brutus ordered me to give it to you ,  and i’ll do what he says .
the two of us will guard you while you sleep ,  my lord ,  and keep you safe .
there were twenty montagues fighting in this awful riot ,  and together those twenty could only kill one man .
cleopatra summoned him .
when you have said your lines ,  go hide in that bush . —everyone else ,  go there too when you’re not onstage .
why did you leave the dining hall ?
no, i promise you; i won’t risk my reputation so stupidly.
imagine the french ambassador returning to inform harry that the king offers him
i’ll find him right away ,  sir ,  and carry out the business as well as i can .
fair enough .
but quiet .
my own flesh and blood to rebel!
edward’s sons have been carried off by the angels and anne ,  my wife ,  has bid good night to the world .
are you sure we’re talking about what we’ve seen here?
come on, shall we go?
if you had foul words in your mouth ,  then your breath must be foul ,  and foul breath is nauseating .
the king sent us to give you his thanks and to bring you to him .
well then ,  i’ll do it .
everything we’ve heard is bad .
good lord ,  how bright and splendid is the moon tonight !
in return ,  i must clear the sea of pirates and send tributes of wheat to rome .
that's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
here, villain, drawn and ready.
we'll leave you ,  brutus;— and ,  friends ,  scatter yourselves ,  but all remember what you’ve said ,  and show yourselves to be true romans .
who said that i was disdainful ,  and that i got all my best lines out of a bad joke book ?  !
i am to blame .
i remember ,  one said there were no mixes in the lines to make the matter spicy ,  and no matter in the phrase that might accuse the author of putting on airs ,  but called it an honest effort ,  as wholesome as it was sweet ,  and ,  by very much ,  more handsome than fine .
good morning to you ,  friend .
o, forgive me my sins!
step aside .
who is that knocking ?
o ,  three times sorrow fall ten times treble on that cursed head whose wicked deed deprived you of your most wonderful intelligence !
is there no pity sitting in the clouds that sees into the bottom of my grief?
isn’t my jacket ,  sir ,  as fresh as the first day i wore it ?
goodbye !
by mary ,  well thought .
whatever seems best to you .
my master's a very jew .
i swear to god i’ll get revenge .
i’m afraid he will .
goodbye, ophelia, and remember well what i have said to you.
stand up ,  and say how you came here .
let me see what he looks like ,  so when i see another man who resembles him ,  i’ll know to avoid him .
come here ,  you .
he looks calmer than he did before .
guilt is so full of artless jealousy ,  that it spills itself in fearing to be spilled .
let that be the latest, and be on time.
go ,  coward that you are .
yes ,  ma'am .
where the devil should he learn our language?
i know not, sir.
stand you aside a while; restrict yourself only in patient way.
i'll have this marriage done tomorrow morning .
good night, good night!
it is an honor that i do not dream of .
can you love the gentleman ?
that’s the deal .
well then, your promise to pay; and, let me see.
that i loved the moor to live with him ,  my downright violence and storm of fortunes may shout to the world .
if he’s not around ,  bring his brother oliver to me .
and indeed he did so .
o mistake, soon conceived, you never come to a happy birth, only kill the mother that had you!
did you hear that ?
from hamlet !
come on .
he found it then; i never gave it to him.
your mother was a piece of virtue, and she said you were my daughter: and your father was duke of milan and his only heir a princess — born no less.
you don’t think you can teach her ?
so the fool follows you .
yes ,  my lord ,  i want to know that .
it’s a cup ,  closed in my true love’s hand ?
no ,  i’ve had my say .
was i even close to you in the chase for the goose ?
let’s go.
this man isn’t jealous ?
he received me with courtesy and sufficient respect ,  but not with affection ,  nor with as much open and friendly conversation as he once greeted me .
you were the prettiest baby i ever nursed .
alas the heavy day!
what disease is he talking about ?
she unfaithful with cassio !
only be patient until we have pacified the multitude, who are beside themselves with fear, and then we will tell you the reason why i, that loved caesar when i struck him, have acted this way.
my lady ,  with your permission ,  this note authorizes me to give myself to you with a kiss .
i don’t like that .
say either good or bad, and i'll wait for the details.
i'll bet fourteen of my teeth, and yet, to tell the truth, i’ve only got four, she is not fourteen.
huh ?
that’s how things should be—straight and smooth .
the very best at a beast, my lord, that ever i saw.
has banquo left the court ?
listen ,  boy !
your letters have transported me beyond this ignorant present, and i now feel the future in the instant.
o heavenly powers !
what's the matter?
oh ,  why is this so ?
don’t say that ,  lysander ,  don’t say that .
the night has been unruly .
this feather moved because of her breath .
madam !
is it possible, my lord?
go to bed and rest, because you need to rest.
o villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
you’re all lazy and shallow .
what should we do with all these rhyming fools that follow us from post to post ?
i know you can do better than that ,  but it’ll do for now .
have some surgeon nearby ,  shylock ,  on your responsibility ,  to stop his wounds ,  so that he won’t bleed to death .
help ,  help ,  help !
what do you have to say for yourself ?
pardon, my lord.
you’re getting too angry .
that’s claudio .
why do you cry ?
the mighty gods defend you!
i have sent to find him and the body .
well.— now come, my ariel!
go forth, my sword; he dies.
cassio doesn’t know you.
when you were wooing desdemona ,  did michael cassio know about it ?
sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet nurse ,  tell me ,  what did my love romeo say ?
so were you .
let’s see .
come with me; i’ll spy under the tents to see if any of my own people plan to desert me .
goodbye .
i’ll be patient when the sea is patient.
just as the ox has his yoke ,  the horse its bridle ,  the falcon a tether ,  a man has his desires—to keep in check .
mis - shapen disorder of perfectly pleasing forms !
he has raised the wall and houses too .
i mean ,  if we are angry ,  we will draw our swords .
let’s leave him .
this was a way to thrive ,  and he was blest; and good luck is blessing ,  if men don’t steal it .
hey ,  if i lay down my  “  welcome ,  lorenzo and salerio .
i see you like to make big offers ,  sir .
why ,  it is not possible .
let me speak as you would; and lay a sentence which, as a grace or step, may help these lovers into your favor.
it is here!
madam ,  madam— antony’s dead !
you could not prevent her from dying someday ,  but heaven will give her eternal life .
but i watched and noted where cupid’s arrow fell.
oh , a footstep as light as hers will never endure the rocky road of life .
don’t you suspect my office ?
as clearly as i see you ,  my lord .
let rivers flood and fiends howl for food !
more and more light .
take note ,  take note ,  o world ,  to be direct and honest is not safe .
give me one ,  ”  i said .
do i know these men who are with you ?
one of these three chests contains her heavenly picture .
no ,  it’s not as deep as a well ,  or as wide as a church door; but it’s enough ,  it will do .
your love says ,  like an honorable gentleman ,  who is courteous ,  kind ,  handsome ,  and ,  i believe ,  virtuous— where is your mother ?
how are you, my lord?
come ,  let’s have an early dinner so that we have time to work out our plans .
where is gloucester ?
proculeius ,  caesar has heard about what you’ve done here and has sent for you .
what ,  in our house ?
now he is for the numbers that petrarch flowed in!
a plague on the tyrant that i serve!
it’s like this: as long as a person tells me the truth ,  even though it means my death ,  i will listen as though he praised me .
often ,  when i’m dulled by worry and melancholy ,  he lightens my mood with his merry pranks .
how do you and your master get along ?
here’s an empty seat ,  sir .
you’re right ,  actually .
isn’t that what he said ?
fire !
okay ,  just do this ,  noble catesby: sound out lord hastings ,  but make it seem as if you’re just mulling over the idea ,  that it hasn’t been firmed up yet .
so you’ve dared him to single combat .
neither can my accomplishments at sea .
come on ,  sir andrew .
love give me strength !
thank you very much .
as great to me, as recently; and, to make the dear loss tolerable, i have much weaker means than you have to comfort you, because i have lost my daughter.
the lieutenant is part of the court’s guard tonight.
nobody’s that bad .
let a dew as wicked as any my mother brushed from a polluted bog with raven's feather fall on both of you !
just listen a little more ,  and i’ll bring you up to date about the present situation ,  which is the whole reason i’m telling you this story in the first place .
who's there?
your worship's friend, and launcelot, sir.
in the same hour ,  and in the same inn ,  a poor woman also delivered identical twin boys .
our queen and all her elves are coming here any minute !
i’ll take you to a place where you can speak freely .
the general should be informed about this .
to visit you, my lord, no other occasion.
all for your delight we are not here.
i owe you a lot ,  and ,  like a willful youth ,  i have lost what i owe you ,  but if you will please lend me money in the identical way that you lent me the first money ,  i don’t doubt ,  as i’ll be more careful ,  to find both sums ,  or i’ll bring your second loan back again and just owe you thankfully for the first .
you say you’re a better soldier .
time, you anticipate my dread deeds.
i give you a sister whom i love more than a brother ever loved any sister .
as i am an honest man, i thought you had received some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than in reputation.
lead those away who will follow you ,  and we’ll explain publicly the reasons for caesar’s death .
why ,  have you seen anything more wonderful ?
to make me blessed or cursed among men!
whenever a king sighs ,  everyone groans .
oh ,  by this count i’ll be many years older before i see my romeo again .
here is a mourning rome, a dangerous rome, a rome not safe for octavius yet; get going, and tell him so.
will you walk ,  sir ?
in parthia i took you prisoner; and then i made you swear ,  since i saved your life ,  that whatever i asked you to do ,  you should attempt it .
that dirty rat !
i know the good king and queen have sent for you .
why should she be murdered ?
please tell your brother what a convincing show i put on .
i’ll remember .
it’s the death of half the world .
i swear ,  my honored lord ,  it is true ,  and we thought it was our duty to let you know about it .
why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade that he will keep out water a great while, and your water is a sore decayer of your wretched dead body.
where should i fly?
that  “ many ”  may mean the foolish multitudes ,  that choose by outward appearance ,  not learning any more than their loving eyes teach ,  which doesn’t go to the inside but ,  like the marten ,  builds on the outside wall in any weather ,  even in the force of wind and on the road to ruin .
it makes me angry.
but did you tell him she cheated on him ?
i’ll be assured that i may; and, that i may be assured, i will think it over.
cut off their heads ?
they bore him barefaced on the bier hey no nonny ,  nonny ,  hey nonny and on his grave rained many a tear .
old age always makes people act funny—even wise people ,  but fools more than anybody .
let’s go up to the castle .
my lord ?
to all ,  and to him we miss ,  and all to all .
i don’t think there’s a single unhappy subject living under the protection of your government .
let’s do it .
he tells me, my sweet queen, he has found the head and source of all your son's unhappiness.
but if i really laid him bare ,  i’d have to weep and hang my head ,  and you would not believe me ,  his behavior is so shocking .
you pale ,  ugly face !
i chose her when i couldn’t ask my father for his advice ,  or didn’t think i had a father .
o hamlet, don’t say anything else.
only hide yourself ,  and mark the sneers ,  the taunts ,  and outstanding scorns ,  that dwell in every region of his face ,  because i will make him tell the story as if it were new ,  about where ,  how ,  how often ,  how long ago ,  and when he has had ,  and is again to have ,  sex with your wife .
an inviting eye ,  and still i think it is properly modest .
coward ,  why don’t you come ?
all very upset ,  with pindarus his slave ,  on this hill .
they stop and want to talk .
ah ha ,  my mistresses !
we are resolved, my lord.
i wish they were ,  so that i could die right now ,  because ,  at this point ,  i live a living death .
i mistook you for the king .
i thumb my nose at superstitions .
if i’m lying ,  then
what handkerchief !
wouldn’t it make one weep ?
how smooth and cool they seem !
i’ll see you on the guards' platform between eleven and twelve tonight .
you know we work by wit and not by witchcraft; and wit depends on slow time.
but please ,  father—the question is still nagging at me—why did you conjure up this storm ?
here’s more news .
no ,  it hasn’t ,  my lord .
hymen brought her from heaven yes ,  brought her here .
excuse me, sir.
will you be counted in the number of our friends, or shall we go on and not depend on you?
beware the thane of fife .
early in the morning we’ll both rush to belmont .
be changeable ,  luck ,  because then ,  i hope ,  you won’t keep him long ,  but send him back to me .
good sir ,  stay close to me .
but you promise you can keep a secret ?
and i am sick when i don’t look at you .
lucius ,  a bowl of wine !
why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.
even good men have bad luck .
run to your houses ,  fall on your knees ,  and pray to the gods to spare you the pain that you deserve for such ingratitude .
james tyrrel—and your most obedient subject .
goodbye .
struggling with the wind and rain .
were you dreaming ,  lucius ?
you’re still here, laertes!
did you have no poison ,  no sharp knife ,  no weapon you could use to kill me quickly ,  nothing so disgraceful ,  except banishment ?
give your sorrow words .
no ,  not too upset .
this was an enterprise ,  sir ,  that jacob worked for; a thing that was not in his power to bring to pass ,  but swayed and fashioned by the hand of heaven .
yes ,  yes ,  three thousand dollars .
don’t stand there in shock.
all that i have to say, is to tell you that the lantern is the moon; i, the man in the moon; this thorn-bush, my thorn-bush; and this dog, my dog.
you and i have heard our fathers talk of another brutus—your ancestor—who would’ve let the devil himself reign in his roman republic before he let a king rule .
now be quiet .
but when our vices become habits—oh ,  the sadness of it ! —the wise gods blind us ,  shade our better judgment ,  make us love our mistakes ,  and laugh as we strut to our ruin .
i haven’t come to steal your loyalty ,  friends .
my lord ?
it isn’t night whenever i see your face ,  so i don’t think it’s night ,  and this forest doesn’t lack worlds of company ,  for you ,  in my respect ,  are all the world .
i did nothing .
i’ll go my own way .
and trust me ,  love ,  you look pale to me too .
o serpent heart, hidden by a handsome face!
i think i’m getting delirious .
whoever is born on a day i forget to send a message to antony will die a beggar .
give me your hand, and take my magic cloak from me.—so: lie there my magic.—wipe your eyes; have comfort.
my dear lord ,  tell me what’s bothering you .
though this island may appear desolate—
wasn’t that cassio leaving my wife ?
i can’t stand her .
good luck ,  fair gentleman .
this man is pyramus, if you want to know; this beauteous lady is certainly thisbe.
o ,  for shame !
how are you ?
so many journeys may the sun and moon make us count again before love is finished!
oh yes ,  three thousand ducats .
four days will quickly dissolve into four nights; four nights will quickly dream away the time; and then the moon ,  like a silver slice in the heavens ,  will light the night of our wedding solemnities .
i don’t know him .
farewell, farewell!
yes ,  go ahead and smile on her; i will trap you in your own courtship .
god give you joy ,  petruchio .
i think alexander the great was born in macedon .
good .
then do so ,  with all your heart .
read the will !
here’s the east .
i think it’s later than that ,  sir .
yes ,  but they don’t see anything .
by this sword , — that killed the shah ,  a persian prince ,  that won three battles with sultan solomon , — i would out stare the angriest eyes that look ,  outbrave the most daring heart on the earth ,  pluck the young ,  sucking cubs from their mother ,  yes ,  taunt the lion when he roars for prey ,  to win you ,  lady .
love news, in faith.
wait ,  countrymen .
draw your trustworthy sword ,  which you have used in such service to your country .
it would make any man as mad as a bull to be betrayed like this .
his beard was gray ,  right ?
your love !
don’t you know me, father?
i’m going .
a ghost ,  a ghost !
then she is well ,  and nothing can be wrong .
how oddly he is dressed!
yes ,  pilgrim ,  lips that they must use in prayer .
and ,  lips ,  o you the doors of breath ,  seal a timeless bargain with death ,  who will take everything ,  with a righteous kiss !
do you want to know the truth ?
and made your other love, demetrius,— who even just a minute ago spurned me with his foot,— to call me goddess, nymph, divine, and rare, precious, celestial?
that was nothing .
yes ,  you’re right ,  her name is margery .
is there any more ,  or is that it ?
what’s going on ,  malvolio ?
madam, not now.
a house ,  a person ?
they stumble that run fast .
long live the king!
but what o' that?
no matter .
how can it be otherwise ?
lock the door .
where shall we go ?
where are you going ?
i’ll stop your mouth with a kiss .
please get him ,  my friend ,  i beg you .
no lie—she screamed at you .
why, friends, you go ahead to do you don’t know what.
your english sorrows will make me smile in france .
i won’t either ,  sir .
gentle mercutio ,  put up your sword .
go .
is he crazy with love for you ?
i’m going to make you a rich man .
a fig for a mask !
it’s a good thing he’s here to recommend himself .
to baptista minola’s house .
how did you come here ,  tell me ,  and why ?
the  get out of here !
what says polonius ?
but you won’t take his flesh if he can’t pay .
insulting hermia !
must i watch you ?
it is the nature of the climate.
oh ,  i’m dying ,  horatio !
of patience .
you’re a mender ,  are you ?
and i .
begin ,  murderer ,  argh !
what do you mean by  “ furniture ”  ?
your loyalty, as mine to you.
and who’s he ,  then ,  that says i play the villain ?
i should think that your appetite would act like a clock (as mine does) and bring you home on its own ,  without the need for a messenger .
god say ,   “ amen ”  !
angels and ministers of grace defend us!
i dare ,  my lord ,  to bet that she is honest ,  burn me at the stake .
either there is a civil strife in heaven, or else the world has been too impudent with the gods, incensing them to send destruction.
but then he said strange things to me .
not even trivial things were left out .
forgive my boldness if i take you up on your words about making magic .
alas ,  good cassio !
aren’t you listening to me speak?
his silly behavior ,  helena ,  is not my fault .
when he is asleep drunk ,  or in his rage ,  or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed ,  at gaming ,  swearing ,  or committing some act that has no element of salvation in it ,  then attack him ,  so that his heels may kick at heaven ,  and that his soul may be as damned and black as hell ,  where it goes to .
the whole world could look at you ,  and no one would be as blind as he is ,  thinking you’re beautiful .
that’s really the best way to win the moor back again .
because that’s what you are now .
the handkerchief!
zounds ,  sir ,  you are one of those who wouldn’t serve god if the devil asked you to .
it’s nothing .
this ,  decius brutus .
your face is mine, and you’ve lied about it.
let’s go find that hussy ,  fortune ,  and and mock her till she starts distributing her gifts more equally .
look whether he has crowned dead cassius or not!
that can’t be it ,  since i still have all those things for which i did the murder ,  my crown ,  my own ambition ,  and my queen .
i’m being called .
this is the woman ,  but not this the man .
but macbeth is .
remember that you call on me today; be near me so that i may remember you.
that’s what you’ll say once you’ve seen part two .
hold, tybalt!
how often tonight have my old feet stumbled on gravestones !
who’s the ruler here ?
what did you enact ?
a day as black as this has never been seen !
you know that all my funds are invested in ships at sea; i don’t have the money or goods to raise such a large sum; so ,  go out ,  see what my credit in venice can do for you ,  credit that shall be stretched ,  even to the outer limits ,  to supply you for your trip to belmont to beautiful portia .
give me a key for this ,  and instantly unlock my fortunes here .
come with me .
a norman.
not even to get her fan ,  or her gloves ,  or her mask ,  or anything ?
bolstered by righteousness ,  i prepared to fight ,  and when he saw my excitement—or perhaps because my shouting scared him—he ran away suddenly .
i have no idea what you’re talking about ,  hamlet .
no metal—not even the executioner’s axe—could ever be half as sharp as your hatred .
what's that ,  my lord ?
did you see anything ?
you would be satisfied ?
tedious and brief !
you worthless girl !
what is it, i beg your ladyship?
and i must go to lorenzo and the rest; but we’ll visit you at suppertime .
farewell; because i must leave you .
i dare damnation.
soon enough .
but ,  hey ,  this doesn’t mean you’re looking to get married ,  does it ?
send me away ?
mother, for love of grace, don’t put that flattering oil on your soul that says my craziness speaks and not your sin.
i’d write sad songs about unrequited love and sing them loudly in the middle of the night .
i’ll look for some way to leave his service .
i’ll walk around and force the commoners off the streets .
you do lie in it, to be in it and say it is yours.
endless weeping for your cousin's death?
this is venice; my house is not a farm.
the moment they planned to act is almost here .
is something about to happen that warrants working this night and day ?
he sent a messenger ahead of him who arrived here so out of breath that he could barely speak his message .
if i live to see you married ,  i have my wish .
but my uncle - father and aunt -  mother are deceived .
you’re smart ,  though ,  and if you were sick ,  you’d take what you needed to get better .
but sir— be quiet ,  kent .
what’s this song ?
but has catesby gone ?
listen to him speaking in quarter notes !
speak again .
what do you think ,  girl !
is that you ,  wife ?
i leave him in your care—but oh ,  if only i were still in his favor i could arrange for better care for him .
pyramus draws near the wall; silence .
goodbye now !
she can’t stand to hear about getting a husband .
faith ,  half asleep .
that’s the right answer—it shows your love .
he’s the color of nutmeg .
either there is a civil strife in heaven ,  or else the world has been too impudent with the gods ,  incensing them to send destruction .
you have seen the cruel proof of this man’s strength .
oh cowardly conscience ,  how you’re torturing me !
yes, but i’m afraid you speak out of torture, where men will say anything.
i tell you she is ,  and therefore make her grave straight .
shall i hear more ,  or shall i speak at this ?
not a jot ,  not a jot .
i wouldn’t dare?
o you invisible spirit of wine ,  if you don’t have a name to be known by ,  let’s call you devil !
without his fish eggs ,  like a dried herring .
he refuses ,  as he is free of vanity and self - serving pride and ascribes all the glory and responsibility for victory to god .
say, voltimand, what news from our ally, norway?
man doesn’t delight me, no, nor woman either, though by your smiling, you seem to find that funny.
just remember who you’ve got on board with you ,  good man .
letters, my lord, from hamlet.
now i will question cassio about bianca ,  a housewife that ,  by selling her desires ,  buys herself bread and clothes .
at your request, monster, i will do reason, any reason.
no one here is affected by your curse ,  because curses are just words with no power .
i’m telling you all this out of affection for you ,  so you can either keep him from carrying out his plans or prepare to accept his disgrace ,  which will be his own fault ,  not mine .
if you’re launcelot ,  then you’re my own flesh and blood .
twenty thousand crowns now ,  and half my lands after my death .
antony ,  it’s time to stop your wild hedonism .
you must say “paragon.” a “paramour” is, god bless us, a thing of nothing.
they hold up adam's profession.
yes ,  my good lord .
you’re turning into strangers; has it come to that ?
i swear by my sword ,  which killed the shah of persia and a persian prince and defeated the sultan suleiman three times ,  that i would face the meanest - looking warriors on earth .
the size of my sorrow must be as great as its source .
i'm going to my pull-out bed; this field-bed is too cold for me to sleep in.
but you see my finger doesn’t have the ring on it .
i am the duke who loved your father .
hamlet comes back .
now, if this promise was in bianca's power, how quickly you would you succeed!
good pilgrim ,  you wrong your hand too much ,  which is showing devotion and good manners in this touch; for saints have hands that pilgrims' hands touch ,  and putting a palm to another palm is a holy pilgrim's kiss .
no ,  my lord ,  i didn’t see anything .
and when you married him and made him the master of your bed ,  i gave you my word that i would do everything i possibly could for him .
truly, i think they are.
if we do ,  it’ll drive us crazy .
your whole family will be ruined .
but it doesn’t matter.
please be quiet .
where is duncan’s body ?
knock, knock.
it does ,  holy sir; and my master is in there ,  one that you love .
good night, honest iago.
there ,  tyrant ,  there !
i swear— —each actor arrived on his ass .
send for him ,  dear uncle .
i’m christopher sly ,  son of old sly of barton - on - heath ,  a peddler by birth ,  a  oh ,  this is why your poor wife is mourning !
i beg you ,  no more !
and yet you’re the one who wants to teach me about restraint !
good evening ,  brother .
let me go with him .
i am very reluctant to go; there is some ill disturbing my rest ,  because i dreamt of moneybags tonight .
the clock struck three .
here i go .
i'll prove you wrong, or else die trying.
your husband knew it all.
i thought it was the right thing to do .
i didn’t think i would ever fight pompey .
swear by my sword .
then please tell me he’s all right .
go tell your generals to hurry their preparations .
go on ,  wear your boots out !
not in the legions of horrid hell can come a devil more damned in evils to top macbeth .
you knew that my spirit was completely under your control and that i would ignore the gods’ orders in favor of yours .
how strangely?
when these tears are gone, woman will be extinct.
will you still provoke me ?
you’ve got it.
and i hope he’s studying his music like he’s supposed to .
would you do such a deed for all the world?
there’s a time for all things .
they thought they would do some naughty charm on this man and maiden ,  who have vowed that they will not sleep together until the god of marriage's torch is lit ,  but they thought so in vain .
no, in spite of sense and secrecy, don’t open the basket on the roof, let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape to test conclusions, don’t creep into the basket and break your own neck.
that’s true ,  sir .
who calls ?
god forbid !
well then ,  tomorrow night ,  or tuesday morning .
let me weep for feeling such a loss .
dressing my out - and - out wickedness in scraps of scripture ,  i look like a saint exactly when i’m most like the devil .
and you can’t put your heads together and figure out why he’s acting so dazed and confused ,  ruining his peace and quiet with such dangerous displays of lunacy ?
you look happier already ,  and i’ll be back quickly .
a friend should put up with his friend’s weaknesses ,  but you exaggerate mine .
i’ve heard a lot more .
what did i do wrong ?
please ,  my lady ,  just confirm that you’re the lady of the house so i can get on with my speech .
didn’t he come home tonight ?
here is more news.
i’ll never see the likes of him again .
fight ,  sir !
you were you the clerk that is to betray me?
shall i speak ill of him that is my husband?
well, i will walk myself over to count paris’ house, to prepare him for tomorrow.
i said so when first i raised the storm .
a boy robbed you ,  but you’ll beat up the post instead .
what would happen to you, if the king of naples heard you?
by the mass ,  it is morning; pleasure and work make the hours seem short .
go ,  daughter .
what bout your thought, iago?
if i see anything tonight that convinces me not to marry her ,  i’ll shame her tomorrow in the very congregation where i would have married her .
i didn’t come, friends, to steal away your hearts.
i’ll take responsibility for that .
lily - livered coward ,  what’s he doing there ?
get out of here .
good ,  very good .
the vapors, whizzing in the air give off so much light that i can read by them.— "brutus, you sleep.
yes ,  i was ,  but i don’t want an answer from you .
do you want to go hunting ,  my lord ?
that’s another bad deal i’ve made ! —a bankrupt ,  a spendthrift ,  who now has to hide his head on the rialto ,  a beggar who used to look so smug in front of the other merchants .
there is siward's son and many youths without beards which now affirm they are beginning manhood .
you come to me saying ,   “ shylock ,  we need money .  ”  you say that ! —even though you spat on my beard and kicked me like you’d kick a stray mutt out your front door .
the problem is in what the letter says ,  as far as i can tell .
i have some rights of past history in this kingdom ,  which now invites me to claim my place .
where is the number of our english dead ?
invite the many guests on this list .
get out, low-life!
nor our strong sorrow ready to be revealed .
in the place where souls recline on beds of flowers we’ll walk hand in hand and amaze the other ghosts with our spirited demeanor .
farewell .
is your name william ?
your bedroom .
how are you now, lieutenant?
get out of here ,  before his bad luck infects you too .
now ,  though ,  in all of rome ,  there’s room for only one man .
good sir ,  why are you startled ,  and seem afraid of things that sound so beautiful ?
but macbeth is .
put a lot of cash together .
they want to whip me for telling the truth ,  you want to whip me for lying ,  and sometimes i’m even whipped for keeping quiet .
i’ll ask him for my position back again ,  and he’ll tell me i’m a drunk .
yes ,  that he was .
good morning ,  friends .
yes .
take note, take note, o world, to be direct and honest is not safe.
welcome back !
well ,  while i live ,  i'll fear no other thing so much as keeping nerissa's ring safe .
it doesn’t get seen enough; you should wear it in your cap ,  the way fools wear coxcombs .
who keeps her company ?
has it come to this?
i can see you don’t like this gentleman .
hang our flags on the outer walls .
i did enact julius caesar, i was killed in the capitol, brutus killed me.
a devil ,  a born devil ,  on whose nature kindness can never stick; on whom my pains ,  taken humanely are all ,  all lost ,  quite lost; and as his body grows uglier with age ,  so his mind is diseased .
in belmont ,  there is a rich heiress and she is beautiful and ,  more beautiful than that word ,  she has wonderful virtues .
read the will !
i wish she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger or made her neighbors believe she wept for the death of a third husband .
i enjoyed a sweeter rest than sleep .
a mischievous child .
indeed you did ,  and more besides ,  miranda .
you shall be free .
do you know ,  servant ,  where lieutenant cassio lies ?
hail to you, baron of cawdor!
let’s break up our watch, and i think we should tell all we have seen tonight to young hamlet, for, i swear on my life, this spirit, silent to us, will speak to him.
her ladies - in - waiting saw her go to bed ,  and early this morning the bed was empty .
why not stay and hear me talk to him ?
good morning to my sovereign king and queen .
the watchdogs bark .
if you can’t ,  and would prefer to leave ,  she’s very willing to say goodbye to you .
what did he do when you saw him ?
heaven thumbs its nose at it ,  and the moon winks; the obscene wind that kisses all it meets is quiet within the hollow tunnels of earth ,  and will not hear it .
haven’t hurt your head ?
lend me your hand.
i think of as many things as he does ,  but i just thank heaven and don’t show off about it .
i dreamed that my lady came and found me dead ,  strange dream ,  that gives a dead man a second thought !
wake up when something nasty is nearby .
call him ,  good mercutio .
and here comes pyramus.
o flesh ,  flesh ,  how are you fishified !
but here’s an old ,  true saying:  “ if you want to win france ,  start with scotland .  ”  for when the eagle england leaves her nest to seek prey ,  the weasel scot always comes sneaking around to suck dry her princely eggs and ,  like the mouse when the cat’s away ,  destroy more than she can actually eat .
it’s always dangerous when little people get caught in the crossfire of mighty opponents .
tomorrow is the day .
you are too evil for words !
from a certain knight who swore on his honor that the pancakes he was eating were good ,  and that the mustard on top of them—he swore on his honor—was bad .
i’ll go find him.
where is malvolio ?
try again .
be quiet ,  you mumbling fool !
yes ,  my own fortune in my misery .
he was becoming very spirited when he was in school.
with whom ?
maybe she’s just pretending .
yes, in faith, my lord.
then tomorrow we’ll find that they feel only like eating ,  not like fighting .
what should we do ?
but ,  oh ,  it makes me bitter to look at happiness through another man’s eyes .
for my part ,  i don’t lie in it ,  yet it ‘s mine .
it’s only for your willing and receptive ear .
you were given birth by a woman .
from my kind uncle ,  who i know will give it to me ,  especially as it’s not worth much .
the only glory princes have are their titles .
the will ,  the will !
i can tell that you don’t know who i am .
what promise, dear?
am i a coward?
a thousand thousand !
but we loved him so much that we would not understand what was the best action, but, like the owner of a dirty disease, to keep it from showing, let it feed even on the core of life.
when ?
this man ,  with lantern ,  dog ,  and thorn bush ,  represents moonshine ,  because ,  if you want to know ,  these lovers think it’s no shame to meet at ninus' tomb by moonshine ,  there ,  there to court each other .
please, peace.
good night ,  mother .
not much .
you wouldn’t have dared to tempt him so.
pooh!
i hope luck will give me what my heart hopes for !
don’t be offended .
there ,  where the torch is burning .
when you see leeks in the future ,  i hope you keep mocking them .
why ,  he told me so himself ,  and he said he didn’t care who knew it .
he answered ,   “ you penniless bastard !
so get out of here !
my lord ,  hamlet’s going to his mother’s room .
hold!
you ,  good friend ,  save me a piece of marzipan ,  and if you love me ,  have the porter let in susan grindstone and nell .
very gracious duke ,  listen with a gracious ear to my request ,  and let me find a contract in your voice to assist my simpleness .
answer me like men.
and of all christian souls, i pray god.
he will die .
very well ,  ma'am .
why should men be more free than women ?
for god knows how many healthy men will shed their blood in support of whatever you persuade me to do .
oh god—who is ,  by the way ,  the best comic of them all .
hear the noble antony.
well, you shall see; your eyes shall be your judge, the difference of old shylock and bassanio:— what, jessica!—you won’t eat like a glutton, as you have done with me;—what, jessica!— and sleep and snore, and tear clothes apart— why, jessica, i say!
if only one of his pockets could speak, wouldn’t it say he lies?
yes, cassius, and, from here on in, when you’re over-aggressive with your brutus, he'll think your mother scolds, and leave you alone.
we’re not playing a merry tune.
if you have a voice or can make sounds ,  speak to me .
it’s come twice before ,  and just appearing out of nothing ,  he’s gone past us at this dead hour with a warlike stalk .
as you wish ,  sir .
they are ,  my lord ,  outside the palace gate .
i’m afraid you’ll keep going until then .
no, sir, there are more with him.
here's decius brutus, he shall tell them so.
only in them, nature's copy is not eternal.
then you can direct me to him you delivered them for.
these are nothing but jealous lies .
all men say you are changeable.
didn’t they ever whisper ?
listen .
alright ,  i will .
how this sneering fault-finder rhymes so badly!
the queen is here on special business ,  and her army has moved on .
her funeral rites have been as far enlarged as we can enlarge.
do you need lime and hair to speak better ?
down with the montagues !
since the vile lion vile has here taken my dear; which is—no, no—which was the fairest dame that lived, that loved, that liked, that looked with cheer.
oh ,  please ,  prince dauphin !
away !
listen to me: you shall not go .
go tell your mistress that ,  when my drink is ready ,  she should ring the bell .
trinculo, run into no further danger: interrupt the monster one word more and, i swear, i'll turn you out of doors, and make a dried fish out of you.
that’s what fulvia told me .
yes, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling, prostitution.
go and beg her .
hello ,  sir .
i am the worst person alive ,  and i know it the best .
come ,  i'll hide you among a sisterhood of holy nuns .
who’s shouting ?
this is the way to trick gullible fools .
i heard him groan—yes ,  i did—and the same tongue that ordered the romans to obey him and transcribe his speeches in their books cried ,   “ give me some water ,  titinius ,  ”  like a sick girl .
why ,  i beg you ?
ok ,  that’s fine .
o cursed spite, that ever i was born to set it right!
you don’t know how quickly affection can be killed with a single nasty word .
or is he on his horse ?
sir ,  my king ,  don’t waste your time mulling over how strange this business is .
who’s been with her ?
will it ?
and i’ll call your husband here .
sweet ,  so do i .
i can’t make myself a man by wishing i were ,  so as a woman i’ll die ,  from grieving .
you’ll be sorry later ,  but it’ll be too late .
if you will patiently join our dances ,  and see our moonlight parties ,  go with us; if not ,  leave me alone ,  and i won’t comment on where you’re going .
brutus, don’t scold me, i won’t put up with it.
macbeth has come .
this is that time .
go !  ”  says the devil;  “ away !  ”  says the devil .
if we lose ,  what do you plan to do ?
he lays it on.
now ,  sir ,  where is claudio ?
she gave it him ,  and he has given it his whore .
and that’s as much he should do, because he’s given to sports, to wildness, and to having a lot of company.
where is he ?
go on .
i’m a gentleman .
now watch him; he begins to speak again.
if you pursue it ,  this strict court of venice will need to carry out the sentence against the merchant there .
allow a good morning from a feeble tongue .
while you’re moving around and you are hot and dry, since you’ll make your bouts more violent to that purpose, and he calls for drink, i’ll have prepared a goblet for him for that purpose, so that even only sipping, if he escapes your stick of venom by luck, we can be successful this way.
give me your hand, messala.
but i’ll be quiet; no more.
him terribly .
my lord?
only in them ,  nature's copy is not eternal .
what didn’t you like ?
there's rue for you ,  and here's some for me .
take me inside some house ,  benvolio ,  or i’ll pass out .
get the lady out of here .
for once tell the truth; tell the truth ,  even for my sake .
stop !
what’s that noise ?
but please tell me more .
for once tell the truth; tell the truth, even for my sake.
your heart’s going to break .
i had planned to celebrate it quietly ,  but since my lord is once more himself ,  i will be cleopatra again .
good morning ,  gentlemen .
it’s terrifying .
oh ,  you evil woman !
yes ,  for three months .
if you were ever yourself ,  and this sadness was yours ,  you and your sadness were all for rosaline .
observe how antony takes his defeat and how his attitude influences his actions .
i beg your pardon .
it’s not for me to say .
why ,  anything but to the answer .
since nobody knows anything about what he leaves behind ,  then what does it mean to leave early ?
i have lost my hopes.
gentlemen ,  let's look to our business .
at other times ,  i know what’s what .
here comes brabantio and the valiant moor .
well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady.
robin starveling, the tailor.
assume, as it were, that you have only heard about him, such as, “i know his father and his friends, and in part him”, are you listening to me, reynaldo?
ever since these deadly conflicts erupted between your violent countrymen and ours ,  both you syracusians and we ephesians have held serious councils and decided not to permit any travel between our two hostile towns .
i’ve got to go .
deceiving me” is thisbe's cue.
what else do you see in the old ,  dark ,  bottomless pit of time ?
your lieutenant ,  if you like; he's no main officer .
it’s more, it’s more.
again  “ banished ?  ”  stop with the philosophy !
the meats baked for the funeral were also put on the marriage tables .
i’ll take it over to the pile .
i thank you ,  doctor .
what’s this ?
why is this all wagered, as you call it?
i won’t be afraid of blow flies .
i don’t think any woman like that exists .
so shut up !
but antonio’s certainly ruined .
i’ll bleed to death .
they’ve made many raids upon italy—and the naval patrols go pale at even the thought of resisting them .
was he pale or flushed and red - faced ?
therefore, fair hermia, think about what you’re doing, think about how young you are, examine your choices well, whether, if you don’t take your father's choice, you can endure life in a convent, to be shut up in a cloister, to live a childless nun all your life, chanting faint hymns to the cold, fruitless moon.
are you squinting at me ?
i have seen you both, but since he's gotten better, we have, therefore, odds.
kill !
oh ,  my !
away!
there's blood upon your face.
and when you get married ,  i hope i can be married at the same time .
god’s blood !  ,  there is something more than natural in this ,  if philosophy could figure it out .
where do you come from ,  sir ?
stay ,  and speak !
if we meet again ,  then we’ll smile indeed .
then follow me and listen to my speech ,  friends .
is it true ?
where should i have lost that handkerchief, emilia?
at least tell me where you’re going .
you know i would never approve a war against my own cause .
mr. antonio send you his regards.
i will, my lord, i beg you to pardon me.
you guide me on the way that i was going, and show me the instrument i was to use.
by the mass, it is indeed like a camel.
good morning to you both .
what are you reading ,  teacher ?
i asked you for gold to pay my soldiers ,  and you wouldn’t give it to me .
give me my armor .
i’ll do well .
are you a married man or a bachelor ?
but i promise you ,  kate: the older i grow the better i’ll look .
punish me if it’s not true .
i’ve left our luggage on the ship ,  and i bought the oil ,  balm ,  and liquor you wanted .
you know ,  i saw the duchess of milan’s gown ,  the one that everyone praises so highly .
sing my praises to your mistress .
hush !
stay here at your own risk; i will go on alone.
madam ,  tell me quickly ,  what day is that ?
to him ,  father .
they call us drunks and insult our noble titles .
then antony offered it to him again ,  and he refused it again (though ,  in my opinion ,  he was reluctant to take his hand off it) .
your loving father ,  hamlet .
let's follow him, gertrude,.
let’s do this legally .
are you going to watch the race ?
i’ve stayed too long .
yes ,  and she was mild too .
o ,  woe is me ,  to have seen the man i have seen ,  see the man i see !
what ,  does your wife say you can come home ?
pooh !
bad friends were .
on ,  lusty gentlemen !
is he there in person ?
play the music . —take my hands ,  my queen ,  and we’ll lull these people to sleep with our soft dancing .
and look how he’s repaid poor clarence for his loyalty—penned him up like a pig being fattened for slaughter .
you shouldn’t talk about him like that !
what fate is that ?
bianca’s love made me trade places with tranio while he masqueraded as me around town .
this shall label our purpose as necessary and not jealous, which appearing to be respectful to common eyes, we shall be called purgers, not murderers.
let them take it whatever way they will .
i recognize his walk .
oh ,  oh !
and from now on ,  when you get hot with me ,  i’ll assume it’s your mother speaking and leave it at that .
you may be exaggerating the risks .
listen ,  but don’t speak to it .
your stockings should be falling down around your ankles ,  your hat flying off your head ,  your sleeves unbuttoned ,  your shoes untied ,  and everything about you demonstrating carelessness and misery .
oh ,  please don’t swear ,  my lord of buckingham .
thus from my lips, by your lips, my sin is purged.
well ,  he’ll be dead ,  so he won’t see anything .
what strange reason could she have for coming here ?
i would give all my glory for a mug of ale and safety .
yes ,  god be praised ,  i have managed to earn his favor .
here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.— joy, gentle friends!
you think about him too much .
one thing is certain: he’s out of control .
we are not going to have enough food.
come ,  sir ,  to finish up with you .
how do you mean ,   “ conspired ”  ?
let me play the lion too .
he calls me  “ boy ”  and scolds me as if he had the power to whip me out of egypt .
you did it ?
let’s listen to the moon .
i am not here to disprove what brutus has said ,  but to say what  i think there’s a lot of sense in what he says .
who pronounced this death sentence before a court of law could even convict me ?
it’s so simple !
and are all traitors like that?
if she won’t tell benedick ,  someone else should .
what is the matter here?
and, sister, as the winds will be favorable and the ships are strong to sail, don’t sleep, until you let me hear from you.
come on ,  come on .
i mean ,  the matter that you are reading ,  my lord .
look ,  look again !
you stopped me; i would have populated this island with calibans.
but if i gave my wife a handkerchief— then what ?
why didn’t they destroy us then and there ?
why, that's my delicate ariel!
if hamlet gives the first or second hit ,  or quits in answer of the third exchange ,  let all the battlements fire their ammunition ,  the king shall drink to hamlet's better breath ,  and in the cup he shall throw a pearl ,  richer than that which four successive kings have worn in denmark's crown .
drinks .
those men that know the earth is full of faults.
and brief ,  good mother—i’m in a hurry .
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood !
who are you ?
he's gone .
she is so generous ,  kind ,  and ready to help that she thinks it’s wrong not to do everything she can ,  even more than she is asked to do .
pardon ,  dear father .
i’d rather be hung in chains from one of our pyramids !
i asked you for certain sums of gold ,  which you denied me;— because i cannot raise any money by dirty means .
me ,  uncle ?
go inside, and tell my mother that i’m going to lawrence' cell to make confession and be forgiven because i’ve made my father so angry.
tell him there's a letter arrived from my master with his horn full of good news; my master will be here before morning.
where have you been wandering ?
indeed ,  the top of admiration; worth what's dearest to the world !
now antony has to leave her completely .
ah ,  alas !
o ,  my good lord ,  i would speak with you !
swear by her foot ,  so she can stamp out the oath .
humble greetings ,  great master !
now, by heaven, my blood begins to rule my safer sense, and passion, having influenced my better judgment tries to lead the way.
oh ,  a plague has been prevented ,  thank god !
cassio, my lord!
he says his name’s poor tom .
that’s what he says .
oh ,  she’s a fine woman !
has cassius lived to be only mirth and laughter to his brutus ,  when sadness and ill - tempered blood aggravates him ?
monday !
didn’t you hear it ?
halt!
my bones want to rest after helping me up to this hour .
today pompey laughs away his fortune .
i will be on the right hand; you keep to the left.
the young generation rises while the old one falls .
good morning ,  sir .
are you of good or evil?
yes ,  my lord ,  and calfskin too .
in thunder ,  lightning ,  or in rain ?
how many things in life seem good to us because of when they happen !
age won’t wither her ,  and her charms are so varied that she never grows boring .
where’s that snake ?
hey !
damn your stones for disappointing me like this !
tell the king what was happening in the battle when you left it .
she’s a good little woman ,  and she adores me .
he shall get his mind back there, or, if he doesn’t, it's no great problem there.
i will my lord ,  as fast as i can .
give this ring to my true knight, and bid him come to take his last farewell.
at my lodging.
yes ,  in faith ,  my lord .
humbly i thank your grace.
about as old as you are ,  my lord .
i remember this fellow—he once played the eldest son of a farmer .
give me your hand .
we’re not going to run in our army ,  monsieur monster .
in a minute ,  in a minute !
heaven forgive you for it!
come, stand not amazed at it, but go along with me; i will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to kill him.
ah me ,  what act roars so loudly and thunders in the wind ?
to know my deed, it’s best not know myself.
that’s an oath of great power ,  and our fury must subside .
i’m very uncomfortable ,  and that won’t help my case .
we are often to blame in this ,  it’s been proven often ,  that with devotion's face and holy actions ,  we sugar over the devil himself .
give him this, and tell him keep it better than the other one.
this island's mine ,  through sycorax my mother ,  which you took from me .
i think it does .
i know exactly how to proceed .
and i beg you instantly to visit my too much changed son .
his face showed more sorrow than anger .
but he’s sleeping .
another yet !
go take them back and smear the sleeping guards with the blood .
find a father who loved his child as overwhelmingly as i loved hero and ask
at this same ancient feast of capulet's, the fair rosaline whom you love so much will have supper; with all the admired beauties of verona.
he claimed he knew that ,  and that’s why he’s come to speak with you .
my lord ,  i do .
tomorrow, as he intends.
the old toad is calling me .
what a sleep this is for your advancement!
but since, you from the polack wars, and you from england, are here arrived, and so jump on this bloody question, give order that these bodies high on a stage be placed to the view, and let me speak to the yet unknowing world how these things came about.
he has ridden his prologue like a rough colt .
saw who ?
but, break my heart, for i must be silent!
no ,  cousin ,  i’m going to fife .
i won’t exhaust you anymore with idle chitchat .
i wish she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger or made her neighbors believe she wept for the death of a third husband.
maybe until after theseus' wedding - day .
and can a person ever have too much of a good thing ? —come on ,  sister ,  you can be the priest and marry us . —give me your hand ,  orlando . —what do you say ,  sister ?
a very tall man !
when she takes a sip ,  i bob up against her lips and make her spill the drink all over her withered old neck .
you are in a perilous state ,  shepherd .
how is it now !
now it’s time to get back to my studying ,  since i have a lot of serious business to take care of before dinner .
may i have a word with you ?
i could do it easily now .
an upright judge, a learned judge!
i wanted to teach her how perfectly i love her ,  kinsman ,  and that’s good english .
choose another tack .
said what ,  sir ?
here in verona there are girls younger than you—girls from noble families—who have already become mothers .
it used to be that when you knocked a man’s brains out he would just die ,  and that would be it .
my wife killed too ?
who is she ?
speak.
stay then; i'll go alone .
let’s carry him in triumph to his house !
have a good night.
what news?
you are too hot under the collar.
great happiness !
with the permission of brutus and the others—for brutus is an honorable man; they are all honorable men—i have come here to speak at caesar’s funeral .
o brave new world that has such people in it !
confusion has now made his masterpiece !
what’s important is to be prepared .
o mighty caesar !
i say ,  amen ,  gonzalo !
you disgust me ,  you little bug !
their sweet air being gone ,  take them back again ,  because to the noble mind rich gifts grow poor when the givers prove unkind .
don’t compare a woman’s love for a man with my love for olivia .
and let no one suffer for this deed except us ,  the perpetrators .
o, my daughter!
no way ,  then ,  i’ll run .
so ,  by heaven’s decree ,  rosalind was composed of different faces ,  eyes ,  and hearts ,  so that she might have the most prized touches of all .
why ,  you silly man !
i’ve only given the articles a cursory glance .
lay her in the ground ,  and let violets bloom from her lovely and pure flesh !
think, my lord!
the whole quarrel might have been resolved since then when we repaid what we stole from them—which most of our city did ,  for the sake of friendly trade relations .
o ,  it is the spite of hell ,  the fiend's high mockery ,  to kiss a whore on a safe couch ,  and to suppose her to be chaste !
you look pale and wild as if you’re going to hurt yourself .
they’re such oversexed gluttons that i feel like we’re living in a pub or a whorehouse rather than a respectable palace .
are you answered?
gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where i may find the young romeo ?
it just appeared before them and marched past them with slow dignity three times ,  a staff’s distance from their amazed eyes ,  while they turned ,  quaking with fear and too shocked to speak .
ah ,  my lord ,  this prince is nothing like edward !
my happiness and yours lie in her .
a good argument; therefore ,  listen to me ,  hermia .
if it is ,  i suggest you don’t eat it .
then i will lay the serving - creature's dagger on your head .
really ,  my lord ,  why are you so excessively sad ?
because you have been as one ,  that in suffering all ,  that suffers nothing ,  a man that fortune's feasts and rewards have taken with equal thanks ,  and blessed are those whose blood and judgment are so well blended that they are not an instrument for fortune's finger to play whatever song she pleases .
we’ll come with you ,  your grace .
now ,  looking at both sides ,  nature has made strange fellows in her time: some that will peep through their eyes forever ,  and laugh like parrots at a bag - piper ,  and the others of such sour disposition that they'll never smile although a wise old man swears that the joke is funny .
those who were bitter enemies of your father in his time have turned their bitterness to sweetness ,  serving you loyally and wholeheartedly .
he doesn’t do a thing but frown, as someone would say, “if you will not have me, choose.” he hears happy tales and doesn’t smile: i’m afraid he will probably be the weeping philosopher when he grows old, being so full of rude sadness in his youth.
where’s that music coming from ?
please ,  remain seated .
don’t be afraid .
what ,  with a torch !
and mine, with my heart in it: and now goodbye until half an hour later.
we’ll do it .
but, as we often see a silence in the heavens, after some storm, the gales stand still, the bold winds speechless, and the earth below as hushed as death, and eventually the dreadful thunder tears the region, so, after pyrrhus' pause, a roused anger renews him and he begins to work, and never did the one-eyed monster’s hammers fall on the god of war’s amour, forged for eternal strength, with less sorrow than pyrrhus' bleeding sword now falls on priam.
who’s there ?
you’re the one i have to obey .
ha !
please ,  emilia ,  ask cassio where he was at dinner tonight . —
be sad only at the fact that you’ll lose your friend—your friend doesn’t regret that he paid your debt .
i have an adventurous fairy that shall seek what the squirrel has been hoarding ,  and get you new nuts .
for all the rest, let lion, moonshine, wall, and the two lovers, tell you while they stay here.
let me see your eyes; look into my face.
i’ll show you how .
i don’t have the position to speak knowingly of her; although i may fear ,  her will ,  rebelling against her better judgment ,  may decide to match you with her countrymen ,  and happily repent her ways .
you won’t regret this .
no matter what you say ,  my father is not dead .
don’t trouble him further until his mind is more settled .
for me, poor man—my library was dukedom large enough: now he believes that i am incapable of performing my political duties; he makes an alliance,— he was so hungry for power,—with the king of naples to give naples annual protection money, pledge allegiance, surrender his small crown to naples’ crown, and bend the dukedom, which had never bowed before—alas, poor milan!— to most dishonorable bowing.
we are still only youngsters in what we’re doing.
so we should eat and drink .
look ,  here comes just the man we were looking for .
isn’t she down so late ,  or up so early ?
and this report has so exasperated the king that he prepares for some attempt of war.
is that the law ?
i beg you ,  leave me alone .
she is to enter now, and i am to spy her through the wall.
calphurnia cried out three times in her sleep ,   “ help ,  someone !
no ,  i'll go with you ,  cheek by jowl .
exactly .
your loving father, hamlet.
be careful, fair maid.
tell me ,  is it missing ?
i need a doctor .
evil earth ,  die; end all motion here; and you and romeo lay in a heavy tomb !
you shall not go out of your house today.
this is the very product of your brain .
why, then othello and desdemona return again to venice.
what stops ?
or like a whale .
why ,  then othello and desdemona return again to venice .
in my soul ,  i believe hero has been falsely accused .
peace, ho, for shame!
shall i re - deliver your answer like that ?
what time is it ?
give me my amour .
she is ten times more gentle than her crabby father, and he's made of harshness.
the enemy gets larger each day .
you talk like a child ,  but you’re very smart anyway .
he is .
let’s discuss it some more .
you must be ready for revenge ,  too ,  when you hear me out .
earth's increase, plenty of feasting, barns and storage for game never empty; vines growing with clustering bunches of grapes; plants bowing with heavy loads of fruit ; spring come to you as long as possible, even to the very end of harvest!
very well.
it’s since the wedding of lucentio, come pentecost as quickly as it will, it’s some five-and-twenty years since we masked.
sweet predictions, good!
drunk ?
i’ve transferred richard’s body to a new grave and on it poured more tears of remorse than it has shed drops of blood .
i have forgotten that name ,  and that name's pain .
is this a dagger which i see before me, the handle pointed toward my hand?
leave hermia alone .
rubbish!
with all my heart .
you liar ,  you’re turning my heart to stone ,  and making me call what i’ll do murder ,  when i had been thinking of it as a sacrifice !
i got him to leave ,  and made up an excuse for your trance .
see ,  ladies ,  how they scorn me now .
damn it ,  god forbid !
yes ,  or any show that you'll show him .
goodbye .
oh ,  this is a painful time !
if i didn’t have so many enemies in orsino’s court ,  i’d go join you there .
ophelia ,  you walk here .
you must have patience, madam.
what a blunt fellow he’s turned out to be !
in order to make your company even more enjoyable ,  i’m going to keep to myself until suppertime .
this wicked man will be brought face to face with margaret ,  who i believe was hired by don john to take part in this plot .
now, how do you look now?
no ,  it’s a story .
who ,  he ?
good day ,  lieutenant bardolph .
why, no; but sadly tell me who.
good - bye !
o sad day !
help ,  ho !
he was not born to shame.
madam ,  madam ,  madam !
your brother is banished by decree.
i’ll hide myself behind the curtain so i can hear what happens, i’ll guarantee she'll set him straight.
i won’t serve him: he’s not valiant.
in fact ,  she’s crazed .
is your master coming?
so farewell ,  all ,  for my tongue has almost finished with its life .
but as virtue can never be moved, it was courted though lewdness in a shape of heaven, and lust, though linked to a radiant angel, will satisfy itself in a heavenly bed and eat garbage.
just as a town protected by a wall around it is worth more than a low - lying village ,  a married man’s horned forehead is more honorable than a bachelor’s bare forehead .
you have to come with me .
where is your harp ?
sorry ,  sir ,  i am half - blind; i don’t know you .
i’ll give him my gray horse capilet if he forgets the whole thing .
his military ability is double that of the other two .
what!
where ?
i beg you, sir, go outside, and give us truth about who it is that has arrived.
send me away ,  my lord ,  but don’t kill me !
i won’t hurt him .
these are unnatural events .
stand aside ,  captain gower .
but, for sure, the bravery of his grief put me into a towering passion.
c’mon ,  i might as well say the fool’s the fool !
there’s no darkness except ignorance ,  and you’re more ignorant than the egyptians during the plague of fog .
oh - ho - ho ,  kid !
an angel is walking on earth .
he strongly fortifies great dunsinane .
his arrow has pierced me too deeply ,  so i can’t fly high with his cheerful feathers .
my husband lost his life to get the crown ,  and my sons' fortunes have been tossed up and down ,  leaving me to rejoice over their victories and weep over their losses .
strike !
can you remember the time before you came to live in this shack ?
how are you ,  my good lady ?
this morning brings a gloomy peace with it .
we can only learn that the confident tyrant still stays in dunsinane, and will put up with our settling down before it.
then, window, let day in, and let life out.
you don’t know me ,  but i know you’re an important person .
seriously ,  cousin ,  i love a woman .
but prepare yourself for some unpleasantness .
do you need my help ?
i took good care of you—piece of filth that you are—and let you stay in my own hut until you tried to rape my daughter .
away with the doddering fool !
sweet now ,  silence !
nurse ,  will you go with me to my closet ,  and help me pick out the things you think i will need for tomorrow ?
and now titania and oberon can never meet in the grove or on green, by a clear fountain, or spangled shiny starlight, but they refuse to settle the issue, so that all their elves creep into acorn cups, and hide them there, because they’re so frightened.
o ,  this is a contract and pay ,  not revenge .
will you come with me to hear this news ,  sir ?
look ,  he’s recovering .
duke ,  please go ahead with your state business .
it is dangerous when the lower nature comes between the ups and downs of mighty opposites.
can’t help it ?
i said so ,  dear katherine ,  and i’m not ashamed to repeat it .
o fool!
for your broken shin.
but he’s young ,  and as long as he’s too young to become king ,  richard ,  the duke of gloucester ,  has power over him .
go, tubal, and meet me at our synagogue; go, good tubal; at our synagogue, tubal.
then fix it.
tears with seven times the salt ,  burn out the sight and truth of my eyes !
let me go ,  gentlemen .
scratch my head ,  peaseblossom .
widow !
wasn’t that letter from beautiful jessica?
with demetrius.
hey, hey!
but let me beg you ,  by the rights of our fellowship ,  by the harmony of our youth ,  by the obligation of our ever preserved love ,  and by anything else that could charge you to be even and direct with me ,  were you were sent for or not ?
i’ll kill myself out of grief !
on thursday ,  tell her ,  she shall be married to this noble earl .
no .
i’m very sorry you’re not feeling well .
what mercy can you show him ,  antonio ?
here ,  take the ring .
goodbye .
you old traitor ,  repent all your sins .
it’s like a monster that just grows and grows ,  out of nothing .
some true love turned false must follow because of your mistake, and not a false love turned true.
from the earth ,  or the air ?
o all you host of heaven!
here is more news .
poor soul, your face is very wet with tears.
be patient ,  because the prize i’m leading you to will make you forget how smelly you are now .
it did ,  it did .
he shall do this ,  or else i take back the pardon that i just pronounced here .
the what ?
for even now i put myself to your direction, and take back my own detraction of myself; here renounce the taints and blames i laid upon myself, as strangers to my nature.
what lights are coming?
i ,  who have survived storms at sea where the winds raged like wild animals ?
this world doesn’t say yes, and it’s not strange at all that even our loves should change with our fortunes, because it’s a question we have to prove, when love leads fortune, or if fortune leads love.
i did nothing.
please don’t be offended that i don’t want to offend you any more .
return to the gracious duke ,  good catesby .
yeah right !
yes ,  sir ,  all this is so .
but who was that man ?
why do you make such faces?
the general cause ?
i like this one .
you speak honestly .
alas ,  iago ,  what shall i do to win my lord again ?
then i’ll look up, my sin is committed.
are there magic spells that can lead young virgins astray ?
and did you see the handkerchief ?
right now, i would give a 220,000 yards of sea for an acre of bare ground; a long wasteland, brown brush, anything.
what country is this ,  friends ?
excuse me ,  sir ,  do you know how to read ?
see whether they’ll really do what you suggested; their guilt made them vanish in silence.
let’s float through the fog and filthy air.
go get some water ,  and wash this filthy witness from your hands .
just tell me that .
if fulvia were the last woman on earth ,  there would be a reason to grieve .
i’m sure he’s somewhere on the island .
is this the finest of his fine art ,  and the seizure of his house seizures ,  to have his fine pate full of fine dirt ?
yes; here i brought it for him into the court; yes, twice the sum; if that is not enough, i’ll swear to pay it ten times over on penalty of the loss of my hands, my head, my heart; if this is not enough, it must seem that evil wins over truth.
i'll go and chat with paris .
any man that can write may answer a letter .
who gave you the directions to this place ?
i’ll cry at nothing ,  and i’ll always do it when you’re in a good mood .
whether they meant to bathe in fresh, bleeding wounds, or create another crucifixion scene, i cannot tell.
thanks, really, because silence is only commendable in a cow’s dried tongue, and in a girl who’s not for sale.
but please, can you read anything you see?
what players are they ?
sir ,  your description of him doesn’t detract from his good qualities ,  though i know that trying to list them all would make your head spin ,  and even so you wouldn’t be able to keep up with him .
do this immediately ,  and send him packing .
you think my uncle was lying ,  grandmother ?
yes ,  celia ,  we kept her here for your sake .
brutus, this sober face of yours hides wrongs; and when you do them— cassius, please.
don’t waste any time .
i’m afraid that may be the case ,  madam .
o setebos, these are brave spirits indeed.
what’s wrong ,  horatio ?
i’ll tell him all of this ,  dear lady .
disobedient wretch !
i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry .
how are you ,  cassio !
that’s not how i do business .
don’t sleep so close to me .
no more than twenty - five .
he’ll grow up to be a proper man .
help !
please ,  sirs ,  lie in my tent and sleep; i might wake you up in a little while about business to my brother cassius .
i dreamed last night that i feasted with caesar ,  and unlucky signs overwhelmed my imagination .
o ,  my good lord ,  there's foul murders done over there !
o ill-starred wench!
i beg you ,  lead on .
wouldn’t he be a comfort to us in our travels ?
o rome, i promise you, if revenge follows, you will receive everything you ask for at the hand of brutus!
really ,  young men ,  though it wasn’t a very hard song to get right ,  the music was still all out of tune .
was the crown offered to him three times?
you’ll know about that later .
i’ll tell the queen the reason for our quick departure and get her permission to leave .
so you don’t love me ?
first go with me to church and marry me, and then go away to venice to your friend; because you shall never lie by portia's side with an uneasy soul.
sleep rock your brain ,  and may misfortune never mischance between us two !
i’m like the one sick sheep in the flock ,  the one who deserves to die .
it would be better if they were all on his father’s side ,  or that there were none at all on his father’s side .
what are we going to do ,  enobarbus ?
are you picking a fight with us ,  sir ?
can you stay awake a bit longer and play a few tunes on your lute ?
a lovely ,  cunning shore can distract a man from the perils of a stormy sea ,  just as a pretty scarf can hide a dangerous dark - skinned beauty .
i don’t know what i shall think of that; but i am launcelot, the jew's man, and i am sure margery your wife is my mother.
when the vision passes ,  you’ll see that you’re just looking at a stool .
i’m terribly sleepy .
my niece already thinks he’s insane .
good . —now come ,  ariel !
lady !
but wait a moment .
and what's in prayer except this double force ,  to be prevented from falling down ,  or pardoned since we are down ?
strategy makes a better soldier than haste .
caesar should be a beast without a heart, if he stays at home today because he’s afraid.
my worthy cawdor!
where the devil can this romeo be ?
and when she does ,  he’ll imagine she’s flirting with him .
the very transfers of his lands will scarcely lie in this box ,  and must the inheritor himself have no more ,  huh ?
where's the baron of cawdor ?
you sell fish .
do you really think there’s a man fool enough to marry into hell—however rich the father is ?
no ,  our general’s infatuation is out of control .
o, come in, liar.
it’s the former hero !
i have rubbed this young pimple almost to the purpose ,  and he grows angry .
the jewels you took from me to deliver to desdemona would’ve made even a nun want to sleep with me .
you could be great; you are not without ambition, only without the drive should usually goes with it.
he can’t like her very long .
i’ve only done my duty .
where is that snake?
never to speak of what you have heard ,  swear by my sword .
he weeps for what is done .
he’s a good man . —let’s go ,  desdemona .
what if it tempts you toward the ocean, my lord, or to the dreadful summit of the cliff that hangs so threateningly over his base into the sea, and once there, assumes some other horrible form which might deprive you of the ability to think, and draw you into madness?
as for your intentions to go back to school in wittenberg, leaving here is not something that we want, and we beg you to give into remaining here in the happiness and pleasure of our eyes, our most important courtier, cousin, and our son.
that which we call a rose would smell as sweet if it had any other name .
she’s full of good intentions .
i assure you, my good lord, i believe my duty is, as i believe in my soul, both to my god and to my gracious king.
but please, therefore, old man, therefore, i beg you, are you talking about young master launcelot?
i have done nothing except to protect you ,  protect you ,  my dear one ,  you ,  my daughter ,  who doesn’t know what you are ,  not knowing where i come from or that i better than prospero ,  master of a full ,  poor dwelling ,  and your not so proud father .
come with us to athens .
think what you will ,  i am your lover's grace; and like limander ,  i am still trusty .
who is that they’re following?
if the king hadn’t resembled my father as he slept, i would’ve done it.
for this idiotic love is like a great natural fool that runs lolling up and down to hide his toy in a hole.
i have letters that say the same thing .
what is it ,  my dear bianca ?
give me your arm .
when they next wake up, all this conflict shall seem to be a dream and a worthless vision; and back to athens the lovers shall go with happiness and agreement that will never end.
i look forward to getting to know you better .
it is here !
i can read my own fortune in my misery .
i humbly beg you ,  proceed to the affairs of state .
don’t tell me; i don’t like it at all that you, iago, who has used my purse as if the strings were yours, should know about this.
i’ll touch the point of my sword with this poison so that ,  if i touch him slightly ,  it will kill him .
you won’t be striking me down ,  but defeating caesar .
he commanded me to wake him up early .
clarence is still alive; edward is not only alive ,  he’s king .
dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary on this fair corpse; and, as the custom is, in all her best array, carry her to church, because, although foolish nature bids us all to grieve, still nature's tears are sanity's happiness.
go and wiggle your ears !
i’m waiting here for the general ,  and i don’t think it would help ,  and it’s not my wish ,  to have him see me talking with a woman .
we are ,  my lord .
i do suffer love ,  because i love you against my will .
brother ,  i'll go and bring it to you .
your grace heard their saccharine words ,  but didn’t take note of their poisonous intentions .
cheer up ,  because i think you’re going to hell .
but as it is ,  we can’t dismiss him: he makes our fire ,  fetches in our wood; and serves in jobs that are to our advantage . —what hey !
my lord, for all i know.
i tell you ,  this will make her angry when she hears about it .
if your vengeful heart can’t forgive me ,  here—take my sword and bury it in my heart so that my soul ,  which adores you ,  can be free .
oh ,  go away ,  you’re a boring fool .
so much for this ,  sir .
vows ,  to the blackest devil !
forgive us ,  my lord .
no, i beg you, listen.
o slave!
let it be ,  because it’s the sport to have the swordsman killed with his own sword ,  and it won’t be easy but i will dig one yard below their mines and blow them at the moon .
but i’ll open the curtain and let you see the picture .
lucius !
i am glad of it.
she was lying even as she was going down to hell .
i’m very afraid of banquo .
shall we go send them food and fresh clothing and feed their starving horses before we fight them ?
oh ,  killing that child was the dirtiest ,  most merciless deed there ever was !
here ,  sweet lord ,  at your service .
god keep me so . —heralds ,  go with him .
some say the lark makes sweet division in its songs; this isn’t true, because she divides us.
yes, good my lord.
now ,  fair hippolyta ,  the time for our wedding is very close; just four more happy days until the new moon .
what unlucky event is up so early ,  that calls me from my morning's rest ?
aren’t you dead yet ?
gertrude ,  don’t drink .
good - bye ,  my dearest sister ,  good - bye .
no, i’ve got another engagement.
why ?
keep that promise ,  love .
yes ,  yes ,  my lord .
or did the letters work on his blood, and newly create this fault?
in its tail .
if you are a devil ,  i won’t be able to kill you .
where have you sent the king ?
isn’t he a very unholy and rude counselor ?
aside .
come over here, gentlemen, and lay your hands again on my sword.
therefore my sadness is without limit .
cut my corset laces ,  charmian ,  so i can breathe .
we took this pickax and this shovel from him ,  as he was walking from this side of the graveyard .
the excuse that you make in this delay is longer than the tale you excuse .
if i only had the means to compete with one of them ,  i have a mind that predicts such good luck for me that i will undoubtedly be a very lucky one .
i don’t think so.
therefore be out of hope ,  of question ,  doubt ,  be certain ,  nothing truer; it’s no joke that i do hate you and love helena .
he’s laughed at my losses ,  made fun of my earnings ,  humiliated my race ,  thwarted my deals ,  turned my friends against me ,  riled up my enemies—and why ?
the young snake that escaped will in time become poisonous and threatening ,  but for now he has no fangs .
yes ,  sir .
let life be short so that shame won’t last too long .
come here ,  catesby .
murder ,  murder !
and like i am for no woman .
you may ,  indeed ,  say so ,  because it was that hand that gave away my heart .
and i will not beg for more.
but what do say you to thursday ?
i don’t know where he lives; and for me to make up a lodging ,  and say he lies here or he lies there is to lie in my own throat .
i am a fool to cry at what i am happy about.
you speak like a green girl ,  ignorant in such dangerous circumstances .
alas the day ,  i never gave him reason !
i can read .
you won’t find any cause for anxiety ,  even if you look for one .
the wall ,  i think ,  being sensible ,  should curse again .
it is my soul that calls my name .
let him approach .
i can’t love him .
look how flushed the actor is ,  with tears in his eyes .
let’s say i didn’t kill them .
either you or i, or both of us, must go with him.
look where it comes again !
it’s nasty, unless they may be skillfully ordered, and i think it’s better not to be undertaken.
but to the heart of the matter.
sometimes ,  imitate lysander’s voice ,  to stir up demetrius’ anger; and sometimes ,  sound like demetrius; and that way you can lead them from each other ,  until sleep imitating death creeps over their eyebrows with leaden legs and batty wings .
sir ,  it’s shaped like itself and is as wide as it has width .
ah ,  rosencrantz !
i can’t wait to meet her !
he’s right over there .
but i’m afraid we’ll never get him to agree to be king .
crazy ”  i call it ,  because to define true craziness ,  what is it except to be nothing else but crazy ?
peace, peace!
prison ,  my lord !
what’s your answer ?
every uncontrolled cup is evil ,  and the ingredient is a devil .
every one should prepare to follow this beautiful corpse to her grave.
give me your hand ,  and explain your situation to me .
stars ,  my lord .
have you seen my lord ?
come, swear it, damn yourself; lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves should fear to seize you.
o heavy day !
o, the world has not a sweeter creature.
the enemy approaches with great display .
move the plates!
princes and counts !
leave all the rest to me .
tell me to tear up this contract .
o ,  help !
he should imprison the person who named you ,  instead .
it’s a shame, there is more danger in your eye than twenty of their swords.
introduce yourself to them ,  and bring them in .
he spends most of his time with the good ,  noble claudio .
are my master and his wife coming ,  grumio ?
hello ,  sir .
can you do that ?
excuse me ,  young man ,  how do i get to the jew’s residence ?
supper is done, and we shall come too late.
mistress!
the whole time .
no ,  no !
my lord shall never rest; i'll watch him calmly ,  and talk him out of patience; his bed shall seem like a school ,  his meals a confessional; i'll intermingle everything he does with cassio's suit .
i explained how you were deceived ,  how you were thwarted ,  the things that were used against you ,  who was working against you ,  and a lot of other things that would convince even a half - wit or a crazy person to say ,   “ banquo did it !  ”  you explained it all .
now ,  by this hand ,  i gave it to a youth ,  a kind of boy ,  a little scrubbed boy no taller than you ,  the judge's clerk; a chattering boy that asked for it as a fee; i could not ,  for my heart ,  deny him the ring .
and you haven’t heard any news about her in your letters ?
when i’ve revealed my true identity ,  you’ll be glad you took the time to help me out .
and let me the small drink clink, clink; and let me the small drink clink.
good night ,  good night !
your majesty ,  and we that have free souls can’t be touched by it .
hello ,  do you have any news ?
under love's heavy burden, i would sink.
he is like a god and knows the truth .
ensign ,  what is he doing here ?
sure ,  to a cheap host and an even cheaper guest .
is it sport ?
if you do love me ,  tell me what you were thinking .
fare you well, lord.
roderigo .
i’ve often given money to people who were unable to pay back their loans to him .
i’m not sure ,  but i don’t think so .
come now !
what news ?
have things been quiet on your watch ?
from silvius ,  sir .
a person can only pay with their life once ,  and she has paid in full .
and here he comes ,  puffing himself up like a turkey .
hail, caesar!
merciful heaven !
an annoying schoolboy ,  unworthy of such an honor ,  joined by a masquerader and a partier !
great happiness !
if you rightly think about the matter ,  caesar has had great wrong done to him .
i'll tear her all to pieces .
o ,  yes ,  my lord .
do you have anything else to say ?
i have ordered you not to hang around my doors; in honest plainness, you have heard me say my daughter is not for you, and now, in madness, being full of supper and drunk, you come, out of maliciousness to interrupt my sleep.
it is the lark that sings so out of tune, straining to sing horrible songs and unpleasing notes.
the muffled queen ”  ?
if it’s found to be so, someone will dearly pay for it.
every fool can tell that .
yes ,  sir ,  i have indeed .
you’ll just have to be patient for a little while .
a very candid reply .
maybe until after theseus' wedding-day.
it’s my birthday .
if you have slain lysander in his sleep, being in blood over your shoes, plunge the knife deep into me and kill me too.
commend me to your lady.
many times ,  you’ve climbed up to the walls and lookout posts ,  to the towers and windows ,  yes ,  to chimney tops ,  your infants in your arms ,  and you’ve sat there the entire day ,  waiting patiently to see great pompey pass through the streets of rome .
thanks for telling me .
in the entire play ,  not one word is well - written ,  and not one of the actors is right for his part .
oh ,  forgive all my sins !
this is the sergeant who, like a good and hardy soldier, fought against my being taken prisoner.
there’s only one hope for you ,  and even that’s a kind of illegitimate hope .
what do you mean?
then murder's out of tune ,  and sweet revenge grows harsh .
why are you crying ?
well ,  i won’t take it any longer .
what do you want ?
this torture should make a loud noise in dismal hell .
what do you say ,  my fair  i do not know dat .
you’re like the poor cat in the old story .
why shouldn’t i be there in person ?
what do you say ,  noble heart ?
well ,  let’s hope you stay in that noble frame of mind .
the french ambassador arrived at that moment and asked to see the king .
you speak with all your wit, and yet, in faith, with wit enough for you.
we fail !
if you will just look sweet, then i am protected against their hate.
your honor is very welcome.
i think he’ll stand with us very strongly.
who is so firm ,  so constant ,  that this noisy disturbance would not infect his sanity ?
it is time i should tell you more.
i’m not one of his punk friends who carries a knife .
he’s not brave enough to be wise .
like hell she was !
here ,  here i’ll remain with worms that are your chamber - maids .
not explicitly ,  but so what ?
they are harder than the stones the house is made of .
little again!
i got this purse full of money from you ,  and my dromio brought it to me .
it’s not earlier than that ,  i tell you .
what, ariel!
why are you so rude to someone who loves you so much ?
nothing ,  messala .
isn’t tomorrow, boy, the ides of march?
no ,  not tonight .
what’s going on ,  horatio ?
yes ,  sweet rosalind .
i am the unhappy subject of these quarrels .
yeah ,  right—you sent me to get whipped .
now you and i have a new friendship, and will solemnly dance in duke theseus' house triumphantly, tomorrow at midnight and bless it for all fair prosperity.
i don’t cross you, but i will.
tell me your secrets, i won’t reveal them.
hang, dog, hang!
night ,  hide me awhile .
is clarence dead ?
is it them ?
how ingenious to make horseshoes out of felt .
how fine my master is!
here comes the good macduff .
horatio says we’re imagining it ,  and won’t let himself believe anything about this horrible thing that we’ve seen twice now .
the captain who brought me to shore has my women’s clothes .
and
say no more against it .
nurse, where's my daughter?
let’s go.
i regret not observing him more closely before i told you to do that .
one sorrow walks on the heels of another, following too fast.
if the prophecy is true, i have defiled my soul for banquo's sons; i have murdered the gracious duncan for them, put doubts and bitter feelings into my mind only for them, and i have given my soul to the common enemy of man, just to make them kings, the sons of banquo kings!
ah ,  here she comes ,  angry and sad .
you, nick bottom, are set down for pyramus.
where ?
oh ,  she knew very well that you were acting like you were in love without really knowing what love means .
but major issues must come before minor ones .
actually ,  it’s not so unusual when you think about it .
i intend to be flesh and blood ,  not airy philosophy ,  for there has never yet been a philosopher who could endure a toothache patiently ,  even though they all write as if they had risen above human suffering and misfortune .
here i’ll rest until daybreak.
don’t say  “ banishment .  ”  from now on ,  you are banished from verona .
he has a person ,  and a smooth disposition ,  to be suspected ,  framed to make women lie .
you may ,  sir .
oh ,  go ,  leave me .
romeo, i’m coming!
i’ve outshot you ,  and not for the first time .
shall i re-deliver your answer like that?
who is her mother ?
that it was ,  sir .
what committed !
shall i be tempted by the devil ?
ill will never prompted anything well said .
which one of them did it ?
we’ll get married at some point ,  audrey .
richard earl of cambridge ,  i arrest you for high treason .
that’s true .
it takes a good priest to practice what he preaches .
you’ll never see me again ,  whether or not he’s dead .
gladly i would dwell on form ,  gladly ,  gladly deny what i have spoken; but farewell polite words !
iago is gesturing for me to come closer .
but step aside ,  fairy !
let’s shake hands all over again, one by one.
i could rhyme like that for eight years in a row ,  excepting meal times and sleeping hours .
it’s yours .
strange and terrible events are all welcome ,  but i despise comforts .
come on ,  let’s go at it ,  macduff ,  and damn the first man who cries ,  'stop !
let's get going and do the murder first .
tubal ,  a wealthy jew i know ,  will supply me with the cash .
the mind i think with and the courage i have shall never sag with doubt or shake with fear.
i’m the one ,  hamlet .
you ,  constable ,  are representing the prince himself .
we’ll meet at the giant oak tree in the duke’s forest .
oh ,  kill me !
please answer ,  my good little student .
it only looks a little paler .
his military understanding is all theory ,  no practice .
i want you .
the princes left your daughter here for dead .
did romeo's hand shed tybalt's blood?
i’ve brought him a present .
if you still feel so affectionate toward her ,  then why not give her permission to cheat on you ?
but still ,  she’s going to kill you for being gone so long .
beautiful thoughts and happy hours attend on you!
what for, my lord?
come on ,  let’s go to prison .
all hail ,  macbeth !
i like singing .
therefore this project should have a plan b or c ,  that might hold if this first one failed .
some say the lark makes sweet division in its songs; this isn’t true ,  because she divides us .
why, what is tybalt?
a most courteous exposition.
don’t let the danish king’s bed be a nest of incest .
behold ,  here is the usurper's cursed head .
but did you ever tell him she was unfaithful ?
i’ll lie here tonight .
now ,  mother ,  what's the matter ?
benvolio ,  who started this fight ?
sea - spirits ring his death bell every hour: [chorus (off - stage): ding - dong .
the poor thing ,  i really think she loves me .
piss off!
those are the awakened father and his friends.
octavius ,  then take him to follow you ,  who did the latest service to my master .
i am sure the duke will never enforce this default.
and ,  good lieutenant ,  i think you think i love you .
that's not a job for a friend ,  my lord .
i won’t stay behind .
our enemies have driven us to the edge of the grave .
then you must speak of one that loved not wisely ,  but too well; of one not easily jealous ,  but ,  being aggravated ,  confused in the extreme; of one whose hand ,  like the low judas ,  threw a pearl away that was richer than all his tribe; of one whose sad eyes ,  albeit unused to a crying spell ,  drop tears as fast as the arabian trees drop their medicinal gum .
no, but tonight is an exception; you shall not judge me by what we do tonight.
she’s full of good advice .
well ,  juliet ,  i’ll lie with you tonight .
o, these outbursts and jerky shaking, impostors of true fear, would well become a woman's story at a winter's fire, confirmed by her grandmother.
here in the tent.
if only one of his pockets could speak ,  wouldn’t it say he lies ?
good then, casca.
and what will you do if it returns to you ?
well ,  that’s how i will grow ,  live ,  and die ,  my lord ,  before i will give up my virginity to his lordship .
in the fact that it’s solitary ,  i enjoy it very much; but in the sense that it’s private ,  it’s terrible .
go announce that he will be executed ,  and tell macbeth that cawdor’s titles will be given to him .
please don’t scold me .
by inheritance, i know i am baron of glamis; only how am i baron of cawdor?
listen to you !
he’s getting worse and worse .
never excuse ,  for when the players are all dead ,  there’s no one to be blamed .
danger knows full well that caesar is more dangerous than he.
tell me ,  captain macmorris ,  have you left the tunnels ?
oh ,  but she’ll keep her word .
i’m out of breath ,  sir .
well go on home .
how beautiful mankind is!
there are reasons and causes why and how in everything .
quiet !
o you invisible spirit of wine, if you don’t have a name to be known by, let’s call you devil!
let him command ,  and it shall be penance for me to obey ,  whatever the bloody business is .
yes .
then if they’re negligent ,  we could control them .
i will reward your loyalty.
and why are you here from wittenberg, horatio?
allow me to continue . —i am a gentleman of verona ,  sir ,  who ,  hearing of your daughter’s beauty and wit ,  her friendly disposition and bashful modesty ,  her uncommon virtues and her mild behavior ,  have taken the liberty of presenting myself as a guest at your house in the hope of seeing for myself if what i’ve heard is true .
uncle !
hold your peace .
may it please your highness ,  sit .
that’s a kind of bastard hope indeed; so the sins of my mother should be laid on me.
a seventh !
murder !
macbeth .
that’s her father and his friends ,  who’ve been roused out of bed .
if everyone looked so lovely in their sorrow ,  then sorrow would be highly prized .
and so you shall, and wherever the guilt is, that’s where the punishment will be.
i have not escaped drowning to be afraid now of your four legs; because it has been said ,   “ as proper a man as ever went on four legs can’t make him give ground ” : and it shall be said so again ,  while stephano still breathes through his nostrils .
oh ,  did he ?
i won’t allow it .
i’m right behind you .
oh ,  holy friar ,  oh ,  tell me ,  holy friar ,  where is my lady’s husband ?
what are doing away from home ?
romeo is banished ,  and all the world is nothing if he ever dares to come back to fight for you .
there ,  take it ,  and thanks for taking such good care of me .
philomel, with melody, sing in our sweet lullaby.
alas, alas!
you ,  my earthly moon ,  are now eclipsed ,  and that alone foretells my ruin .
here comes another group looking for you .
my uncle ?
i cannot tell; i make it breed as fast as ewes and rams.
destruction take my soul ,  but i do love you !
you don’t have a man’s courage .
i don’t hear anything ,  madam .
were you mad when you spoke to me so madly ?
if her breath were as terrible as her words ,  she would kill every living thing from here to the furthest star .
does the moon shine that night we play our play ?
i gave it to dromio ,  who rushed in for it .
lighter and lighter, darker and darker our sorrows!
the mercy that was alive in me a moment ago was smothered and killed by your own advice .
make him think you’re sir topas the priest .
i’d bet my life that ,  as young as you are ,  you’ve fallen in love with someone .
give me your torch, boy.
damn that dirty black coalminer of a devil !
you can have a whole story ,  not just a word .
mine wasn’t wearing a bridle .
make your boasts come true ,  and i’ll be thrilled .
this is the sergeant who ,  like a good and hardy soldier ,  fought against my being taken prisoner .
i will give you the most expensive in venice ,  and find out where it is by proclamation: only for this ring ,  please ,  excuse me .
well ,  when nature makes a person beautiful ,  can’t fortune make her fall into a fire ,  thereby making her ugly after all ?
oh ,  he’s acting just like juliet ,  just like her .
i still see you ,  in form as evident to my touch as the one i now draw .
if i decide to get angry at you ,  just watch out— you’d be done for then ,  monster .
get out of my sight !
after midnight ,  for two nights running ,  these two guards ,  marcellus and barnardo ,  saw a figure that looked very much like your father ,  in full armor from head to toe .
father ,  this isn’t easy for me .
i beg you all, stand up.
i’ll be at your service .
my lord, he's going to his mother's bedroom.
then ,  you be happy .
get up from your beds as if you were rising out of your own graves ,  and walk like ghosts to come witness this horror .
an important droplet is hanging from the corner of the moon .
we both have eaten as well ,  and we can both endure the cold winter as well as he .
he’ll never follow anything that other men have started .
demetrius and egeus, go ahead; i must ask you to do a few things about the wedding, and meet with you about some issues that affect you.
so what’s going on ?
leave me ,  and do as i ask you .
there isn’t a single drop of sincerity in him that could be touched with love .
you shall not go, my lord.
o fool !
it’s late .
you bastard !
no ,  you shall not .
didn’t i meet your friends ?
this fellow will out - talk us all .
you were kneeled to and otherwise begged by all of us; and the fair soul herself considered at which option she should take, between reluctance and obedience.
did you try to get him to engage in any pastime ?
pour in the blood of a sow who has eaten her nine offspring .
it’s certain that she is dead ,  and she died in a strange way .
cool it with a baboon's blood, then the charm is firm and good.
why was that cry ?
oh god ,  he’s murdered his master !
the generals want to speak with us .
if she gave you as much lip as she gives me ,  you’d be sick of her by now .
you have more wild goose in one of your jokes than i have in five of mine .
if you’re my friend ,  tell me what you’re thinking .
a sealed bag ,  two sealed bags of dollars ,  of double dollars ,  stolen from me by my daughter !
tie him to this chair . —you’ll see ,  criminal— by the gods ,  it’s disgraceful for you to pull my beard .
would you like to be king of the entire world ?
have you slain him, then?
you’re crazy to say that !
oh ,  i don’t know .
a very handsome man.
therefore, get to your horse, and let us not be too dainty in saying goodbye, but only sneak away.
where's antony ?
o cassius, if you could only persuade the noble brutus to join us— don’t worry.
now i see it is true ,  because banquo ,  with his hair matted with blood smiles upon me ,  and points at them for his .
he said she was unfaithful ?
we want to hear the will .
they say there are only five people on it .
is this true ?
madman!
let them start something .
worse than that ,  she’s polluted herself ,  so that the fountain is a place where disgusting toads copulate and reproduce !
if i can find any animal in this wild forest ,  i’ll either be food for it or bring it as food for you .
come, cassius' sword, and find titinius' heart.
my worthy cawdor !
tell him his pranks have been too excessive to put up with ,  and that your grace has taken a lot of heat because of him .
oh ,  i’ll rest here forever .
i am baron of cawdor.
be good enough to hear me out .
it seems that the guards who were supposed to be protecting his chamber did it .
i wish my father could see them with my eyes .
i’ll look at him and try to like him ,  at least if what i see is likable .
o lord, i could have stayed here all the night to hear good counsel.
and i for no woman .
how are you ,  my lord !
how did this trick come on him ?
i’m a poor man who’s been humbled by many misfortunes .
give me your pardon, sir.
i’m positively stuffed with air ,  i eat so much of it .
i will do it, my lord.
go ahead—rage till your proud heart breaks .
i’ve promised them i would ,  and they’re expecting it .
i’m very glad i came to see you .
strike the drum.
here are the long ,  black eyebrows that shall blush for me .
her name is margery, indeed: i'll swear, if you are launcelot, you are my own flesh and blood.
romeo spoke nicely to him, asked him to consider how silly the quarrel was, and in addition, advised him of your high displeasure.
where is this king ?
i’ll head to france soon .
therefore, farewell.
you say well.
that’s exactly what they said .
heaven knows what she has known.
but if i were brutus and brutus were me ,  then i’d stir you up ,  and install in each of caesar’s wounds the kind of voice that could convince even stones to rise up and mutiny .
you’re not responsible for my death and my father’s ,  and i’m not responsible for yours .
damn it, god forbid!
very gladly .
on what grounds?
go ahead—say  “ amen .  ”  no more talking .
if you can prove that i’ll ever be so in love that i can’t be brought to my senses with a good round of beers ,  you can pluck out my eyes with a love - poet’s pen and hang me on a brothel’s door where the picture of blind cupid usually goes .
it is three o'clock ,  and ,  romans ,  before night ,  we will try our luck in a second battle .
yes ,  better than you know me .
we need to stay away from each other until midnight tomorrow .
good heavens !
o day!
the will of man is persuaded by his reason, and reason says you are the worthier maid.
my friends ,  remember that you’re my guests here .
your face, my baron, is like a book where men may read strange matters.
put your sword away, or use it to help me break up this fight.
it was urgent and important enough to require his personal presence .
a hearty laugh.
but if you didn’t know about it ,  then you were wrong to get mad at us .
he’s been killed .
no ,  you must forget that .
i wander everywhere faster than the moon revolves around the earth .
shall it be tonight at supper ?
i’d deny whatever evidence you had against me—even if it were in my own handwriting—and turn it all into evidence against you and your plans for treachery .
then it is he; the rest that are nobles are already in the court .
if you care about your life, shake off slumber, and beware.
she sees you with the eyes my daughter lent her ,  it’s true .
cassio was wrong to hurt montano ,  who was only trying to help him ,  but i’m sure the guy who ran away must have offended cassio in some terrible way ,  and cassio couldn’t let it pass .
where is my love?
tell me what you are .
what will you do with it ,  that you have been so eager for me to steal it ?
for the sake of our old friendship ,  i ask you ,  hold my sword handle while i run on it .
caesar has never been wrong, only with good reason, and he will not be satisfied without good reason.
there was, for a while, no money paid for debate unless the poet and the player fought over the question.
well ,  good luck !
who’s there ?
there ,  take that ,  you scoundrel !
give me the death sentence and end all my troubles .
then make a circle around the corpse of caesar ,  and let me show you the man who made the will .
she’s dead ,  she’s dead ,  she’s dead !
no ,  then ,  you are making fun of me .
it may be these apparent signs, the unaccustomed weather of this night, and persuasion of his men who tell the future may keep him from the capitol today.
you speak with all your wit ,  and yet ,  in faith ,  with wit enough for you .
by our lady ,  your ladyship is taller than when i saw you last ,  by the height of a high - heeled shoe .
that’s very soon.
we’ll take care of it .
ah, my good lord, what have i seen tonight!
shall i be afraid when a madman stares at me?
we love him highly ,  and shall continue our graces towards him .
i’ve heard that too ,  and partly believe it .
yes ,  i really think so .
look, and you’ll see.
let it be so.
three words ,  dear romeo ,  and good night indeed .
how dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
one sees more devils than vast hell can hold; that is the madman.
whatever happens tonight ,  don’t talk about it .
stay near me so i’ll remember .
it’s a very sad day .
we'll burn the house of brutus .
when he opens his wallet to give us our pay ,  your conscience will fly out ?
stay !
make peace with god ,  for you must die ,  my lord .
peace, oh!
where’s the passage of holy scripture that you’re basing your sermon on ?
no ,  as i shall be saved .
what warlike noise is this ?
if anyone here knows a better way to tame a shrew ,  speak up ,  please .
go on .
no more of that .
look at your house, your daughter, and your bags!
goodbye .
i have given you strong proof of my constancy, giving myself a voluntary wound here in the thigh.
this shepherd boy reminds me quite vividly of my daughter .
when grown - ups teach little children ,  they do it gently and easily .
oh ,  that most wicked fiend !
the other half goes to the state .
now ,  it’s the very witching time of night ,  when churchyards awake ,  and hell itself breathes out disease to this world .
no, alas, i found it, and i gave it to my husband.
help us carry these clothes to where my barrel of wine is hidden ,  or i’ll kick you out of my kingdom .
what ,  my lord ?
i got it from him: pardon me ,  bassanio ,  because ,  by this ring ,  the doctor slept with me .
it is for the dead ,  not for the quick ,  therefore you lie .
the things i need are all on the ship .
no ,  but he chattered on ,  and spoke such scurvy and provoking terms against your honor ,  that ,  with the little godliness i have ,  i worked hard to tolerate him .
whose house ?
god bless your grace with health and happy days .
no, i don’t know.
i thank my noble lord .
not since widow dido's time.
where is the fool i sent on ahead ?
i’m not coming .
you’ll introduce me to him as a eunuch .
awake ,  awake !
knock ,  knock .
oh ,  that’s nothing ,  believe me ,  sir .
they have letters for him .
say no more against it.
do you love me ,  master ?
in any case ,  our survival depends on putting together the strongest force possible .
good night ,  honest iago .
let it come down.
go ,  lad ,  and take them to the pantry .
indeed, time has a strange disposition but men may interpret things in whatever way they like, far from the purpose of the things themselves.
most mighty sovereign ,  you have no reason to doubt my friendship .
me too .
this paper tells me of ten thousand frenchmen who lie dead on the battlefield .
oh ,  don’t injure your cousin like that !
i’m your little dog ,  demetrius .
nothing at all, yet all that i see is.
yes, it does.
come ,  my lord .
my mother ,  dying ,  gave it to me ,  and asked me ,  when my fate would have me marry ,  to give it to my wife .
gentlemen, play here, i will reward your pains, something that's brief and say, “good morning, general.” hey, fellows, have your instruments been in naples, that they sound as horrible as like this?
in spain ,  caesar had a fever ,  and it made him shake .
o, give me permission.
lorenzo, to be sure and my love indeed, because who do love i so much?
ladies whose toes are not plagued with corns will have a dance with you .
the moor is of a free and open nature, that thinks men are honest that only seem to be so; and will as tenderly be led by the nose as asses are.
if you send them word you’ll not come, they may change their minds.
it waves me forward again .
and no one eat any onions or garlic .
will you give her up?
father ,  take pity on him .
speak up and tell me !
i haven’t seen him for two days .
but jealous souls will not be answered that way; they are not ever jealous for a reason, but jealous because they are jealous.
and now my lady worm's, no jaw and knocked about the face with a sexton's spade.
those who smile at it will soon be dead themselves .
i’ll hound him .
i know when a man is on fire ,  he’ll swear anything .
what, shall we go?
find some occasion to make cassio angry ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or insulting his discipline ,  or from whatever reason you please ,  which might be suggested by what’s happening at the time .
why ,  sir ,  he’s not coming .
o flesh ,  flesh ,  you’ve turned pale and weak like a fish .
with lysander?
but i’ll go out of spite ,  to feed off the wasteful christian . —jessica ,  my girl ,  watch the house .
and now that i have the boy ,  i will undo this hateful spell that i have put on her eyes .
what ,  are you hurt ,  lieutenant ?
it’s as silent as a graveyard here .
you lie ,  you shag - haired villain !
master ,  is this satan’s mistress ?
where do you live?
how is it that they travel ?
pardon me ,  but i’m just repeating what you yourself have said .
what are you doing here alone ?
yes ,  she’s young and tender .
o, how may i call this a lightening?
who am i then ?
but still ,  i say ,  if suggestion and strong circumstances which lead directly to the door of truth ,  will give you satisfaction ,  you may have it .
what if i obey?
o, he's a lovely gentleman!
risk everything for lead ?
all i wanted to tell you is that the lantern is the moon ,  i’m the man in the moon ,  this thornbush is my thornbush ,  and this dog is my dog .
the weakest fruit drops to the ground first ,  so let me drop .
what kind of work is this ,  charmian ?
where are they ?
oh ,  pomfret ,  pomfret !
everything’s fine .
we’ll maintain that she died the instant she was accused ,  and everyone who hears this will grieve for her ,  pity her ,  and excuse her actions .
it is impossible that you should see this if they were as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys, as salty as wolves in a pride, and fools as disgusting as ignorance made drunk.
why, revenge.
i rejoice in his good fortune .
this is as it should be .
from there we’ll safely carry you to france and back ,  calming the waters of the channel to provide you with a smooth voyage .
my thoughts were never on money .
i swear by this hand and my father’s soul ,  the whole thing is a disaster .
i desperately needed god’s blessing ,  but the word  “ amen ”  stuck in my throat .
goodbye, goodbye!
no more than a minute ?
and walter couldn’t get his dagger out of its sheath .
what is she going to do here ?
no ,  his mouth is stopped; honest iago has taken orders for it .
pardon me ,  julius !
be merciful, say death; for exile has more terror in his look, much more than death; do not say banishment.
master ,  you were so focused on the girl herself ,  i wonder if you missed the main point here .
this king knows, and you must have heard, how i am punished with a painful madness.
i’d kiss you before i spoke .
what does my hidden wife say about our ruined love ?
only to your own satisfaction.
i’ll send goblins out at night to work their nasty deeds on you .
i will ,  caesar .
good master mustardseed ,  i know you well .
sir ,  i have done all this service since i left you .
i wish you had deserved less ,  then the greater proportion both of thanks and payment might have been my !
groan ?  !
good ,  i’ll expect you .
what captain do you serve ?
it’s impossible .
alas ,  he is too young .
what should we do about that ?
why ,  wouldn’t you ?
and stand indebted ,  over and above ,  in love and service to you forever .
my blessing instill these things in you !
what news do you bring ?
i can’t help remembering the things that were most precious to me .
for you to do it would be good service .
and so it is that i ask see your assistance.
what have you done ?
oh ,  ho !
i swear— by nothing ,  because this is no oath .
scarcity and want shall ignore you; ceres' blessing so be on you .
no .
i'll go along, not to be shown such a sight, but to rejoice in splendor of my own love’s looks.
but you wouldn’t know what a bad feeling i have inside .
how silent is this town !
why have you gotten so rude ?
if you can nod, speak too.
what kind of beard should i wear for the part ?
no ,  i had to do something .
well praised !
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
refusing to fight him at sea won’t disgrace you .
get going, get out of here, leave!
i must act my dreadful scene alone .
he saved me the trouble: here he comes .
and i missed yours.
let me deal with this .
more than you wish for us waits in your royal walks ,  your board ,  your bed !
suffolk died first ,  and york ,  cut to pieces ,  came to him where he lay in his blood and took him by the face ,  kissing his gashes .
how did this trick come on him?
shylock ,  do you hear me ?
the drink ,  the drink !
they say they have letters for you .
my soul is made out of lead ,  and it’s so heavy it keeps me stuck on the ground so i can’t move .
my lord, i came to see your father's funeral.
he fell down in the market place ,  foamed at the mouth ,  and was speechless .
i’ll scratch out your eyes ,  even if they could fly .
i believe your honor is thinking of a character called soto .
where’s your master ?
sometimes snakes wrap around me ,  hissing at me with their forked tongues till i go crazy .
that we must do that also.
or keep it as a jug to hold dirty toads to knot and give birth in!
her reputation is also her own .
dear sister ,  it’s unfair to me—and unfair to yourself—to turn me into a slave .
death and damnation !
a very unhappy one.
have you told her what we have decided for her?
oh ,  there’s been a lot of quarreling .
don’t saints and pilgrims have lips too ?
i have lived long enough.
the next more easy, for use can almost change what is natural, and can either curb the devil or throw him out with wondrous effectiveness.
tonight we host a solemn supper ,  sir ,  and i'll request your presence .
in bed asleep, while they do dream about things are true.
is there more work ?
i’ll tell you: it’s because of a law as plain as father time’s bald head .
come here ,  sir .
give my regards to hastings ,  catesby .
he has raised the wall and houses too.
o most dear mistress ,  the sun will set before i finish what i must work to do .
thus ,  it should be clear as day that king pepin’s title ,  hugh capet’s claim ,  and the resolution of king lewis’s doubts all plainly derive from the female .
but, in the beaten way of friendship, what are you doing at elsinore?
you ass !
he'll still be hanged ,  although every drop of water swears against it and open very wide to fill him up .
i’ll let you know my answer shortly .
not having the thing that would make them short hours.
i’m begging you ,  good mercutio ,  let’s call it a day .
so my eye is very attracted to your shape; and your fair virtue's force violently moves me ,  on the first look of you ,  to say ,  to swear ,  i love you .
yes ,  by mary ,  it’s the coroner’s inquest law .
let her come in .
if i can’t do it myself ,  i’ll find someone who can .
that’s our offer .
if hercules and lichas threw dice to decide who was the better man, the best throw may be turned by luck to come from the weaker hand: so alcides was beaten by his boy servant; and i might too, with blind fortune leading me, miss that treasure which a more unworthy man may get, and i’ll die from grieving.
you mean this is the whole problem ,  that she is shy and hasn’t said everything she means to say and do ? —my lord of burgundy ,  what do you have to say to this lady ?
here’s the hut ,  my lord .
if i had known this young man was his son ,  i would have tried harder to convince him not to fight .
heaven knows what he’s going to do with it .
since birth is heaven and heaven is earth, all three meet in you at once, which you would lose at once.
is it possible fulvia is dead ?
you’re bothering me .
i’d try it ,  if i could cry  “ hem ”  and have him .
what ?
yes ,  my good lord .
i have known her continue in this way for a quarter of an hour.
would your honor like to try this dried fruit ?
let me find him, fortune!
do they hold the same respect they did when i was in the city ?
in any case ,  do what you want .
what ,  hello !
you must stop this.
i beg you ,  in your letters ,  when you shall tell about these unlucky deeds ,  speak of me as i am; nothing farfetched ,  and don’t write anything in malice .
no indeed ,  my lord .
either you are really mistaken, or you commit these errors willfully.
but my inspiration works ,  and she is delivered like this .
go to your cabins and be quiet !
i’m reminding your grace what you promised me .
captain macmorris ,  i beg your pardon ,  but would you grant me a discussion or two with you ,  see ,  partly touching on or concerning the practice of war ,  the roman wars ,  for the sake of argument ,  see ,  and friendly conversation ?
how now !
sin from my lips?
he did comply with his mother’s breast before he sucked it.
hortensio ,  good friends like us can get by on a few words .
how?
good luck .
i will get peter quince to write a ballad of this dream .
but love gives them power ,  and time gives them the chance to meet ,  sweetening the extreme danger with intense pleasure .
leave her to god and her own guilt .
is this possible ,  my lord ?
no ,  please ,  save it for dinner conversation .
who can be wise ,  amazed ,  temperate ,  and furious ,  loyal and neutral ,  in a moment ?
before i would say i would drown myself for the love of a chicken, i would exchange my humanity with a baboon.
no more ,  please .
bow ,  stubborn knees ,  and ,  heart ,  with strings of steel ,  be soft as the muscles of the newborn baby !
it is some misfortune; the cry is very sorrowful .
serious vanity!
oh ,  really ?
but i won’t shed any of her blood or scar that beautiful skin ,  whiter than snow and smooth as the finest marble .
i order you ,  speak !
he strongly fortifies great dunsinane.
read it .
why, stay, and listen to me speak.
it might, my lord.
how i adore on you !
where’s he going ?
no harm done.
come inside with me ,  and i will tell you my plan .
over there ,  where titinius mourns it .
did god make him ?
go ,  order my goblins that they torment their joints with dry convulsions; shorten up their muscles with long - lasting cramps ,  and make them more spotted with pinches than a leopard ,  or mountain cat .
to be good - looking is a matter of luck ,  but to read and write is a natural gift .
good morning, caesar.
now i see it’s true .
where is my page ?
i accept it freely ,  and will play this brother's wager honestly .
let’s go for it .
pay for something i never got ?
he’s as brave as a fox .
i recognize a natural and prompt speed that i find in hardness ,  and undertake these present wars against the ottoman .
for me, three thousand dollars.
all the charms of sycorax ,  toads ,  beetles ,  bats ,  fall on you !
please go ,  sir .
goodbye .
would he were here !
and why’s that ?
i’ll leave you till night .
look ,  here he comes .
the duke himself ,  or any of my brothers of the state ,  can only feel this wrong as if it were their own; because if such actions may have passage free ,  bond slaves and pagans shall be our statesmen .
the father and the master and the king didn’t order their subordinates' deaths when they ordered their services .
and i’ll sing it for the duke in the intermission of a play .
to the health of our general!
shall they see us ?
shouldn’t i say ,   “ does a dog have money ?
are your doors locked ?
by our beards (if we had them) ,  you are a knave .
i won’t be afraid until birnam wood remove to dunsinane.
down with the top mast !
oh ,  forgive me !
sir,— one: speak.
he’s hot - tempered ,  and he might try to hit you with his staff .
we still know you are a holy man .
because we were unprepared for the king’s visit ,  we weren’t able to entertain him as well as we would have wanted to .
is the throne empty ?
and let me the small drink clink ,  clink; and let me the small drink clink .
who i am and what i want are a secret .
what ,  you egg !
i know you well .
you promised to tell me .
god be with you; take my job .
they say he used to fence for the shah of persia .
i think that he has neighborly charity in him, because he borrowed a moneybox from the englishman, and swore he would pay him again when he was able; i think the frenchman became his guarantor and it was sealed by another.
good night .
go ahead and ask her .
if all the wine in my bottle will help him, i will help his malaria.
report back to him fast and tell him what has happened .
come, desdemona, once more happily brought to cyprus.
every hour he comes out with some horrible new offense that puts us all on edge .
to be brief—as the occasion requires—prepare to fight early in the morning ,  when your future will be decided .
victory is with us .
but why, villain, did you kill my cousin?
hey ,  lucius !
in action how like an angel !
that’s all there is to say .
i will not choose what many men desire ,  because i will not jump with common spirits and rank myself with the barbarous multitudes .
that’s true ,  if the devil may be her judge .
i think i see a friend who will pay my bail and save my life .
on tuesday last ,  a falcon ,  towering in her pride of place ,  was hawked at and killed by an owl that usually eats mice .
how sweet the moonlight sleeps on this bank !
his faults were equally matched by his virtues .
my sword ,  i say !
she blushes at the slightest thing .
i will ,  caesar .
it is bad weather in us all, good sir, when you are cloudy.
ready.
o, then, by day where will you find a cavern dark enough to hide your monstrous face?
no ,  that’s not it—it’s because of what happens in the marriage bed .
what else ?
why do you cry ?
you are welcome .
let me see you dance .
are you answered ?
then you and i and all of us fell down ,  while bloody treason triumphed .
you just said they had to face her .
is that the rope ladder romeo told you to pick up ?
i have seen the day that i have made my way through more impediments with this little arm and this good sword than you could stop twenty times .
it’s obvious:  here comes biondello .
go ,  go get fire .
my noble lord— what is it ,  iago ?
so go on ,  tell me the news .
a woman more beautiful than the one i love ?
indeed they say that the senators mean to establish caesar as a king tomorrow,and that he will be king everywhere, in every place, except here in italy.
what are you?
i’ll read it aloud .
yes ,  making a big fuss .
our guiding light is out .
we will.
i hope it doesn’t make me unchaste that i really want to be a married woman .
you are a villain.
you ,  roderigo !
truly ,  a peck of dry food; i could munch your good dry oats .
but i’ll admit i don’t care for you .
we are very sorry for it  .
but since ,   to get back to the matter at hand ,  what do you think of our proposal ?
oh ,  oh ,  oh !
my niece olivia will notice ,  and let me tell you ,  no matchmaker in the world can get you a woman faster than a reputation for courage .
don’t worry ,  i couldn’t care less .
to have no hope that he is drowned is another way to have such a high hope, that even ambition can’t see beyond it, but defies belief.
brutus ”  and  “ caesar .  ”  what’s so special about  “ caesar ”  ?
are you kidding ?
by my brotherhood, the letter was not a social one, but a message of great importance, and failing to deliver it may do a lot of damage.
oh ,  that’s a joke made out of leather that spreads itself thin ,  from the width of an inch to as fat as a yard .
knock ,  knock ,  knock !
the deep of night has crept over our talk ,  and nature must obey necessity; which we will put off with a little rest .
my lord ?
heaven and your thoughts are witnesses that you are .
his forward voice now is speaking well of his friend; his backward voice is uttering dirty speeches and insults.
stop, please, widow dido.
well ,  i’m glad that everything has been sorted out .
what ,  would you have me beg for my food ?
you couldn’t beat the two of them apart .
has she told benedick how she feels ?
high and mighty ,  you shall know i am set naked on your kingdom .
get going ,  and hire those horses .
you lie ,  abhorred tyrant; with my sword i'll prove the lie you speak .
well then ,  here it is .
curse your heart for sending me out to catch my death with prancing up and down!
i wish you had deserved less, then the greater proportion both of thanks and payment might have been my!
neither to you nor any one ,  having no witness to confirm my speech .
go on ,  take them .
from down here ,  i thought his eyes looked like full moons .
i have seen you both ,  but since he's gotten better ,  we have ,  therefore ,  odds .
he who chooses me will get what he deserves .  ”  that’s nicely put—because who’s going to cheat luck and get more than he deserves ?
i gave him no order .
where is lucentio ?
juliet wills it so .
what have i ever done that he has anything to complain about ?
give me your hand.
o my heart!
large and increasing .
take it easy; he shall see my face no more; lysander and i are going to leave this place quickly .
who’s talking to him now ?
i never saw it or suspected it ,  so it never hurt me .
he’s walking ahead of me ,  and he keeps daring me to follow him .
where is she now ? —what ,  will my hands never be clean ? —no more of that ,  my lord ,  no more of that .
are you going to provoke me ?
confess” and “love” have been the very sum of my confession: oh, happy torment, when my torturer teaches me answers for escape from evil!
i say, it is not lost.
did he marry me just to starve me ?
she is daughter to this famous duke of milan ,  who i have so often heard has a great reputation ,  but that i never saw before; of whom i have received a second life: and this lady makes him a second father to me .
eighty ducats in one shot !
what are you thinking ?
but you’ll see that the very thing that joins them will be the thing that separates them .
my lord, he has wrung from me my reluctant permission by asking me again and again, and i finally had to give in.
it is so ,  indeed .
i know that my lady’s going to end up hitting him .
he’s as
a villain kills my father, and for that, i, his sole son, do this same villain send to heaven.
skip over all the particularities between then and harry’s return to france .
know that i am brutus !
the throng that follows caesar at his heels ,  of senators ,  of praetors ,  common suitors ,  will crowd a feeble man almost to death .
there’s hardly a bush for miles around .
no ,  bigger !
oh ,  let her live ,  and i’ll ruin her manners and her beauty .
good luck .
come on ,  let’s go inside .
and make him break his promise with fair aegle ,  not to mention with ariadne and antiopa ?
lucius ,  who’s that knocking ?
and in this way, you have explained it very well.
the gods forbid !
never.
the demon hoppedance is in tom’s belly ,  crying for some fish to eat .
but his punishment was bitter death .
some two months away, up higher toward the north, he first shines, and the high east stands, just as the capitol, directly here.
no ,  it’s not as deep as a well ,  or as wide as a church door ,  but it’s enough .
we are not going to have enough food .
then isn’t it just the right dish for a sweet goose ?
why ,  look ,  how you get angry !
you’ll pay for this if i ever see you face - to - face in the daylight .
stay warm .
you’ll fight with him eventually ,  and  the duke ,  my father ,  loved his father very much .
if he is too insistent ,  tell him that romance is like a dance: it has its own rhythm and timing .
you may go that far.
friends ,  come here .
welcome ,  my friends .
who’s this adam you speak of ?
or ,  if you don’t delay ,  make my wedding bed in the tomb where tybalt lies .
alas, he is betrayed, and i have no hope!
i have had a dream— it’s beyond the smartest man to say what kind of dream it was.—man is only a donkey if he goes about to telling this dream.
i can’t explain it .
who brought them?
he would be a brave monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
so why did you laugh when i said that men don’t interest me ?
are you speaking from your heart ?
it was the owl that shrieked, the fatal bellman, that gives even the worst dispositions a good night.
fairies ,  be gone ,  and stay away .
that we should ,  with joy ,  pleasure ,  partying ,  and applause ,  transform ourselves into beasts !
i have such an exploit in hand, ligarius, that you would hear if you weren’t sick.
you should get a wife !
i thank you .
be patient ,  sir !
losers always leave quickly .
marry her as you should have married her cousin ,  and i will let my revenge die .
stay in the dark .
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,   ” where is your mother ?  ”  o god's lady dear !
ok ,  again .
bravely ,  my hard worker .
i could do without another toast .
my god ,  it’s the same one i gave the judge !
god gives those gifts—i had nothing to do with it .
children have lost—or no longer have time to learn—skills that should be a credit to our country .
wait!
pyramus is coming up to the wall .
your case is most unusual ,  though the venetian law can’t stop you from proceeding . — yes ,  so he says .
come on ,  servant ,  come .
you can’t trust them .
the swelling disease drown this fool !
if we offend you ,  it is with our good will .
this is a nasty tune too: but here's my comfort .
scornful lysander!
can it be possible that no one saw them leave ?
my servants might overhear ,  and old gremio is still hanging around ,  so we might be interrupted .
is the king coming, i beg you?
amen .
a right good marksman !
dear general ,  i never gave you any reason .
bring him here dead or alive within the next year ,  or get out off my land .
well ,  her name’s a word ,  and if you fooled around with it you might make her into a whore .
it was a rough night .
o ,  you and i have heard our fathers say there was a brutus once that would have fought the eternal devil to keep his status in rome ,  as easily as he would fight a king !
by mary ,  that ,  i think ,  is young petruchio .
if we can do that ,  everything will be all right .
sir ,  we were discussing how our garments now seem as fresh as they were when we were at the wedding of your daughter ,  who is now queen ,  in tunis .
let’s go after the man whose has gone before us to bid us welcome.
in good time !
though our lives—   we have decided ,  my lord .
when you are gentle ,  you shall have one ,  too ,  and not till then .
shame on you!
i don’t want anything more .
that’s another sin arising from your ignorance: you bring ewes and rams together and make your living by their copulation .
knock, knock, knock.
before god ,  an excellent song .
i am thoroughly informed about the case .
what’s your name ?
i won’t take it .
i don’t think so .
go to sleep, and listen to us.
look .
how can we find out more ?
as far, my lord, as will fill up the time between this meeting and supper.
men must not walk too late.
precious villain !
life's only a walking shadow; a bad actor, that struts and worries about his hour onstage, and then is not heard from again.
has caesar gone to the capitol?
do you need my help?
for ,  as i am a soldier ,  the name i think suits me best ,  once i begin my attack on harfleur again ,  i will not leave the half - conquered town until she lies buried in her own ashes .
i beg you ,  sit still .
pardon me, good lady; because, by these blessed candles of the night, if you had been there, i think you would have begged the ring from me to give the worthy doctor.
i am no tyrant but a christian king ,  whose emotions are as tightly controlled as the wretches who languish in our prisons .
you speak truly; it is so ,  indeed .
no harm was done .
give your sorrow words.
yes ,  my lord .
take my remark in whichever sense you like .
live ,  and later you will say ,  a madman's mercy made you run away .
no .
that’s how i always do it ,  getting money from fools .
i have a faint, cold fear that scares my veins and it almost freezes up the heat of life.
don’t tell me about mercy; this is the fool that lent out money for free: jailer ,  look to him .
alas, iago, my lord has accused her of being a prostitute, thrown such angry and horrible words at her, as true hearts cannot bear.
go up ,  go up ,  and see the great destruction's image !
why do you repeat it ,  woman ?
i am content ,  if that’s the way you want it .
truly ,  lady ,  you have a merry heart .
or did she ask for them, with such a beautiful question as soul to soul allows?
when i spoke that ,  i was ill - tempered too .
but god forgive me for bragging .
make room !
a sweet woman !
that’s why they say love is a child .
you’ll  enough of this .
revenge .
my dearest love, duncan comes here tonight.
that’s not the tune i had in mind .
you’re supposed to show that you understand that pyramus just went to check on a noise he heard and is coming right back .
i know him well by reputation .
are you going to let us in ?
we will try it.
believe me ,  i’m not .
how are you, my lord?
where has he gone ?
tut ,  tut ,  my lord ,  we’re not going to stand around chit - chatting .
that’s too long a pause over what you find there.
meanwhile ,  i’ll get sir toby .
sit between us .
i’ll be back soon to wake up your generosity .
but there are two more hard things ,  that is ,  to bring the moonlight into a chamber ,  because ,  as you know ,  pyramus and thisbe meet by moonlight .
who's there ?
my lord ,  on the platform where we watched .
therefore be patient, take no note of him, it is my will.
no ,  messala .
why did you laugh then ,  when i said ,   “ man doesn’t delight me ”  ?
i hope that we may, but my heart is still very much afraid of him, and my gut feeling is that he cannot be trusted.
o, farewell, farewell the neighing horse and the shrill trumpet, the spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife, the royal banner, and all goodness, pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!
what light breaks through that window ?
treat desdemona well .
time to buy myself a mirror and employ a few dozen tailors to dress me up in the current fashions .
why are you yelling at me so angrily ?
worse and worse .
is the duke of exeter safe ?
tell me, my spirit, how are the king and his followers doing?
who's there?
no ,  don’t press up against me .
ha, ha!
yet she must die, or else she'll betray more men.
good .
why are you wringing your hands ?
i think it’s important .
very true; therefore look well for it.
happily the seas ,  and different countries with other things ,  shall cure and get rid of this problem in his heart that has such a hold on him ,  which his still active brain makes him like this from being himself .
the most you hope for was for her to marry wealthy and rise up the social ladder—that was your idea of heaven .
your lady mother is coming to your bedroom .
who's there ?
but ,  look ,  poor me ,  what a terrible tragedy is here !
look, look!
i say you aren’t.
i saved his life and gave him my love ,  without reservation .
yes ,  and said nothing except that which i have every intention of doing .
no one’s life should have been entrusted to them .
what has he said?
sister ,  calm down .
fifteen years !
don’t talk to me ,  emilia .
why, that is love's transgression.
come ,  bring him away .
ok ,  we’ll leave you then until dinnertime .
when she landed at the port ,  antony sent an invitation for her to come to supper .
no ,  you don’t need to worry about us ,  lorenzo .
precious villain!
he speaks freely ,  madam .
come ,  come; cut thread and thrum; quail ,  rush ,  conclude ,  and quell !
never ,  until caesar's thirty - three wounds are well avenged ,  or until another caesar has added slaughter to the sword of traitors .
to cut my penalty from that bankrupt man over there .
what is your news ?
give him the goblet .
i think i can find him .
when did you lose your daughter?
absolutely ,  if you can find a wife by then .
you ask me why i would rather choose to have a weight of dead flesh than to receive three thousand dollars.
until that happens ,  let me be who i am and don’t try to change me .
brutus ,  you give a nice speech along with your evil strokes .
i can be discreet in honorable matters ,  ride a horse ,  run ,  tell a good story badly ,  and deliver a plain message bluntly .
i changed my mind .
what, to kiss in private?
indeed i do ,  sir ,  and i’ve come to let you in on a certain problem .
women grow by men.
when he woke ,  he wouldn’t know where he was .
bring him here and ask him .
look it’s coming again!
forever and forever goodbye ,  brutus !
no, nor more fearful.
damn you all !
well ,  call them back again .
whenever you like.
let go of his arm .
will you meet me straightway at ninny's tomb?
you weep for him to my face ?
why ?
then they’re cold friends to me .
he ran this way ,  and leaped over this orchard wall .
it’s good that you don’t know that you’re his heirs; because if you did, o, what would happen!
you hit my servants ,  and your disorderly mob of knights treat their superiors like servants .
i'll  “ re ”  you ,  i'll  “ fa ”  you .
may egypt drown in the nile and all good creatures turn into poisonous snakes .
excellent good .
you are dead !
these are old wives’ tales to make fools laugh in the alehouse .
agrippa ,  go start the battle .
you spotted snakes ,  with double tongue ,  thorny hedgehogs ,  be not seen; newts and blindworms do no wrong; come not near our fairy queen .
where are they?
your name is lucentio ,  you say .
isn’t your master with him ?
never did mockers waste more idle breath.
you shall not blame us in your funeral speech, but speak all the good that you can imagine about caesar; and say you do it by our permission; or else you won’t have any part at all in his funeral.
that makes lady courtesy a traitor .
draw your sword and give me enough blows to kill me .
is the execution of cawdor carried out?
sir ,  you and i must part company—no ,  that’s not it .
antonio shall be obligated; right?
servant ,  what was your master doing in this place ?
take up the bodies .
it carried us toward corinth–or so we thought .
his name is romeo, and a montague; the only son of your great enemy.
who’s that calling ?
hang on a minute—who are you ?
a pound of man's flesh, taken from a man, is not so valuable, or profitable either, as flesh of mutton, beef, or goat.
from what ,  in god’s name ?
no ,  not sure ones when we’re talking about something unsure .
that’s what i conceive of him .
oh ,  lovely .
but don’t be afraid ,  cesario .
i think you’re more articulate .
just then, they sailed away from our ship, so only i became their prisoner.
we need a calendar !
you’re asking me !
yes ,  and more .
we'll make it a small wedding, a friend or two; because, listen, tybalt’s being killed so recently, people may think we didn’t care for him, being our relative, if we party too much.
let romeo go quickly away from here, or else, when he is found, that hour is his last.
lend me a garter .
tonight in harfleur we will be your guest; tomorrow we’ll march on .
you’re cold ,  cold ,  and you were never hot with lust .
what’s the obvious conclusion from that ?
why ?
how is hamlet ?
the love that follows us sometimes is our trouble, which are still grateful for as love.
will it please you to listen once again to the favor i asked you?
dear maid ,  kind sister ,  sweet ophelia !
you will not blame us in your funeral speech ,  but will say all the good you want to about caesar and that you do it by our permission .
i don’t like what you’re asking me to do .
you are jealous now that this is from some mistress ,  some gift .
this cannot anger him .
he was not born to shame .
what committed !
i have a wife whom, i protest, i love; i wish she were in heaven, so she could beg some power to change this currish jew.
but if you would think about the true cause ,  why all these fires ,  why all these gliding ghosts ,  why birds and beasts ,  from quality and kind; why old men ,  fools ,  and children think about it— why all these things change from their usual order ,  change their natures ,  and their normal events to monstrous disorder—why ,  you shall find that heaven has infused the lightening with these spirits ,  to make them instruments of fear and warning about some monstrous state .
but what praise could you bestow on a deserving woman indeed ,  one that ,  in the authority of her merit ,  rightly wore the witnessing of very malice itself ?
he does confess that he feels himself troubled, but he will by no means speak about the cause.
i wish i were your bird .
amen to that, sweet powers!
stand up.
the french are still fighting .
they’re asking for dates and quinces in the pastry .
you lie, malignant thing!
go home ,  you idle creatures ,  go home !
goats and monkeys !
come on ,  nerissa ,  i have many things to do that you don’t even know about yet .
that you lift the death sentence on my servant ,  who killed a rowdy and belligerent former servant of the duke of norfolk .
stained with blood ?
isn’t it completely moral to kill him now with this sword—and an easy conscience ?
isn’t every living thing condemning her ?
did he charge interest?
longer, longer.
yes ,  if the devil tempts you to do good .
i will mourn hero tonight .
you only have to close our hands with holy words, then love-devouring death can do whatever he dares it is enough that i may call her mine.
how does my generous sister?
oh ,  i’m out of breath from this foolish chase .
lady!
your wit is so forceful ,  it frightens the very meaning out of your words .
stop there!
time travels at different speeds for different people .
yes ,  noise ?
good evening ,  casca .
here it’s, most reverend doctor; here it is.
if you can love a man of this temperament ,  kate ,  whose face a sunburn wouldn’t make any worse and who never looks in the mirror to admire himself ,  let your eye improve me .
i wish i were as big and strong as you .
i’m not here .
with all my heart ,  i’ll go right away .
i don’t know, madam.
come on ,   “ nothing ”  will get you nothing .
i myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed .
what do you think about that ?
for lead ?
may the evil one take me if i meant it like that !
there is no better one on earth .
this is the monkey's own rumor.
get up .
you just said all your lines at once ,  cues and all . —pyramus ,  enter .
now, antony, our prayers are answered.
i will not.
the loss cannot be repaid, and patience says it is beyond her cure.
thank you ,  sir .
oh ,  lieutenant !
no ,  don’t .
i fear his looks, and i doubt his reasons.
though cassio did only little wrong to him ,  as men in rage strike those that wish them best ,  yet surely cassio ,  i believe ,  received some strange insult from him that fled ,  which patience could not let him get away with .
i must fall down on that step, or jump over it, for it’s in my way.
do you like pictures ?
not in my house ,  lucentio .
i do .
shylock ,  are you listening ?
be angry whenever you like ,  it’s all right with me .
pardon me ,  a word or two before you go .
i cannot tell; i make it breed as fast as ewes and rams .
up and down ,  up and down; i will lead them up and down .
you swear never to mention what you’ve seen .
the concern sir?
please ,  stop bowing ,  good sir .
if you don’t mind ,  i’d like to speak with you .
i did give the finger ,  sir .
hey ,  cassio !
the wildest animal isn’t as cruel as you are .
yes ,  only she doesn’t see anything .
over there, sir, he’s walking.
but ,  for all that ,  to my thinking ,  he seemed eager to have it .
oh spite !
where are your jokes now?
he hasn’t yet spent the wedding night with her; and she is joy for the gods .
your wit is too courtly for me .
silence!
what news?
that's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a man to bend his legs.
it’s a letter from my brother that i haven’t finished reading yet .
have you heard of me ,  most noble empress ?
for three months; right ?
our hostess sits in her chair of state ,  but ,  when it’s time ,  we will require her welcome .
every man is on his own for all the rest, and let no man take care for himself, because all is only fortune.—coragio!
the excuse that you make in this delay is longer than the tale you excuse.
if it’s the same one— if it’s the same one ,  or any one that belongs to her ,  then together with the other evidence it’s pretty strong .
no ,  we’ll all go there to bring him .
i would govern with perfection like yours ,  sir ,  to surpass the golden age .
you’ve done what you should be sorry for.
you corrupt judge ,  why did you let her escape ?
am i the master here or you ?
my friend stephano ,  let them know ,  please ,  within the house ,  that your mistress is at hand ,  and bring your music outside .
this man isn’t jealous?
be merciful and say  “ death .  ”  exile is much worse than death .
and if you could, you couldn’t bring him back to life.
he was an admirable king .
never believe it.
well, god protect you!
and why are you here from wittenberg ,  horatio ?
tybalt is gone, and romeo banished; romeo killed him; he is banished.
come on ,  tie them up .
you ,  sir ?
heavens thank you for it !
both begin with an r. ah, joker!
let us hurry to hear it ,  and call the noblest to hear it too .
but it is his handwriting ?
read this book, showing that such an exercise may colours your loneliness.
what’s wrong ,  general !
give a quick example .
indeed ,  before you arrived here ,  old siward ,  with ten thousand soldiers already prepared for battle ,  was making his way here .
ho, guildenstern!
lord ,  how painful it was to drown .
what dangers would you lead me into, cassius, that you want me to search for something that i don’t have in myself?
howl ,  howl ,  howl ,  howl !
ha!
can you buy them with money ?
love is like smoke rising with clouds of sighs; being cleansed, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes; being vexed, a sea nourished with lovers' tears.
they laugh that win .
there’d be no kingship— he wants to be king in a place with no kingship .
not a mouse stirring.
caliban !
you shall be lord of it ,  and i'll serve you .
let them start with us .
couldn’t you take some opportunity without my giving you one ?
mean you his majesty?
we’ll meet at the duke's oak .
i’ll come at you with the old proverb:  “ should i make myself at home ?  ”
my papers, it is just that i set it all down, that one may smile, and smile, and be a villain, at least, i am sure, it may be so in denmark.
by jesus ,  i think they will blow up everything if we don’t improve our tactics .
i do beg you ,  sir ,  trouble yourself no further .
but like an unruly deer ,  he’s always trespassing past the park borders and straying away from home to feed in new pastures .
where is this impatient and very unfortunate man?
i hope your majesty will ,  in all good conscience ,  bear me out and vouch for the fact that this is the glove of alençon and that your majesty gave it to me .
awake ,  my lords !
our jailers will shrivel up with old age before they make us cry again .
let’s go .
very true .
let’s go in together, and still keeping your silence, i beg you.
one of you ,  stand sentinel over there .
revenge .
soul of rome !
trinculo ,  speak politely .
and now that i have the boy ,  i’ll undo the spell that makes her vision so disgustingly wrong .
and so ,  on the wings of imagination and at the speed of thought ,  our scene flies swiftly on .
men’s faces are truthful ,  whatever their hands do .
it is well .
let everyone beware: i can shake off the tyranny that now oppresses me whenever i choose .
i met the youthful lord at lawrence' cell; and gave him what proper love i might ,  not overstepping the bounds of modesty .
why ,  love ,  i say !
goodbye ,  dear father .
it is clean out of the way.
you’ll get a blow from me for that ,  i think .
i know this act looks horrible and grim.
i doubt it .
yes ,  let the count take you in your bed .
i am unfortunate in the handicap ,  and dare not tempt my weakness with any more wine .
so ,  good night to you all .
a greater power than we can fight has ruined our plan .
thanks for being on time.
is it good or bad ?
bring that swinger orlando here .
i’m never in the mood to laugh when i hear sweet music .
don’t take helena’s side .
doctor, the barons desert me.
why can’t imagination trace the noble dust of alexander until he finds it stopping a wine barrel ?
i’ll go as fast as i can ,  madam .
lucentio’s son is older than that ,  sir .
what is a man, if his chief good and use of his time is only to sleep and eat?
he never gave orders for their deaths.
unpunished !
we meant to tell the king that his orders have been carried out ,  and rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead .
is my lord angry?
he, he, it is he.
what, my lord?
i’ll flatter anyone who flatters me—though what i’ve accomplished on land cannot be denied .
i am.
time ambles for both men .
be happy .
but if i am myself ,  then i know for sure that your weeping sister is not my wife .
don’t talk of him except as a property.
what's the matter?
what, shall i groan and tell you?
i think they want him to go home and appoint cassio governor in his place .
then he’ll be as calm and quiet as a dove waiting for her eggs to hatch .
i don’t know .
who offered him the crown?
in the meantime ,  come home with me ,  and when the time is right i’ll take you to talk to him .
what, you shake at that?
i said she was .
goodbye ,  good strato .
indeed he has played on this prologue like a child on a recorder ,  a sound ,  but not in order .
and yet ,  words are a good thing when the man speaking them is pleasant to listen to .
i beg you ,  strato ,  stay by me .
but he isn’t here now .
you really don’t recognize me ,  father ?
be sure to burn his magic books .
who's there?
are you sincere ?
this is most brave ,  that i ,  the son of a dear father murdered ,  prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell ,  must ,  like a whore ,  release the content of my heart with words ,  and fall down cursing like a very drab ,  menial servant in the kitchen !
how will you do for a father ?
i am an ass ,  indeed: you can tell by my long ears .
not ever heard ,  or ever suspected .
now please stop being so strange and tell me what exactly i should blab to my lady .
i lent my body once to make him rich .
neither the sky nor the earth have been quiet tonight .
if you regard it as shameful ,  put the shame on me .
she is, indeed, perfection.
my dear othello !
ha !
if you do bend, and pray, and play up to me for him, i reject you out of my way like a stray dog.
tedious and brief!
poor prattler ,  how you talk !
why ,  then ,  it’s my body’s doomsday .
he asks her to do what god  say she will be a high and mighty queen .
tell us ,  old egeon: are you the man who once had a wife named emilia ,  who gave birth to two fair sons ?
slay !
god pardon sin !
he’s been captured or killed .
is it so ,  indeed ?
i would not for the wealth of all the town do him disrespect here in my house .
you seem to understand me ,  since you each are laying a scrawny finger upon your skinny lips .
why are you silent ?
my children would have enjoyed a better death if god had blessed you with a purer life .
murder and treason !
indeed ,  i should have asked you before who he was .
i am a villain .
my fairy lord ,  this must be done very quickly ,  because night is quickly coming to an end; and over there is the first hint of morning sunlight ,  which ,  when it is seen by ghosts wandering here and there ,  they all troop home to the graveyards .
how noble in reason!
this dream has been interpreted all wrong .
yes ,  that the king is dead .
beggar that i am, i am even poor in thanks, but i thank you, and sure, dear friends, my thanks are a halfpenny too expensive.
next time i’ll give you nothing for something .
only that a joy beyond joy calls out to me ,  it’s a grief so brief to part with you .
he still hasn’t told us about the captain .
be near at hand; i mess it up.
oh ,  my lord !
tomorrow night at dinner then?
come ,  sir ,  get going .
every minute we expect more ships to arrive .
go on ,  and don’t leave any ritual out .
my heart’s too sad for long goodbyes .
let’s break up our watch ,  and i think we should tell all we have seen tonight to young hamlet ,  for ,  i swear on my life ,  this spirit ,  silent to us ,  will speak to him .
is the situation in scotland the same ?
weeping and wailing over tybalt's corpse.
don’t let your ears hate what i’m going to say forever, which will hit them with the heaviest sound that they have ever heard.
i’m full of joy .
bloody ,  bawdy villain !
goodbye ,  master; goodbye ,  goodbye !
yes .
here they come .
and since i wooed her in your name ,  i’ll join you in disgracing her .
if i live to be as old as sibylla the witch, i’ll die as pure as diana the goddess of purity, unless i am obtained by the letter of my father's will.
please save me a piece of marzipan; and because you love me, let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell.
despised ,  distressed ,  hated ,  martyred ,  killed !
how are you doing ,  brother ?
my services that i have done for the signiory shall out - shout his complaints .
you ,  fellow ,  step out of the crowd .
my eyes are made the fools of by the other senses ,  or else my eyes are worth all the rest .
your husband’s mad ,  isn’t he ?
my lord ,  i don’t know what’s going on ,  but it seems to me that your highness isn’t being treated as politely as before .
are you wise ?
i’m done .
once again ,  what’s the news ?
what is the prince's sentence?
i order you to come with me .
we will hear more of this story later.— egeus, i will override your demands; these couples shall eternally be knit by and by with us in the temple.
it’s too bad .
i don’t know and he won’t tell me.
from the looks of him, he can tell us the latest news of the revolt.
i’ll go back inside and ask the lady for some kind of escort .
for your house,—briefly.
you’re not conquered.
you must therefore be content to conceal the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and violent expedition.
mr. bassanio, listen to me: if i don’t put on a sober habit, talk with respect, and swear only now and then, wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely, no more, while grace is saying, hood my eyes like this with my hat, and sigh, and say “amen;” use all the observances of manners, as one well studied in a sad display in order to please his grandmother, never trust me anymore.
i can tell you ,  but  “ young ”  romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you asked for him .
and shall our lively blood ,  quickened by wine ,  be so frosty ?
peace, i have done.
come on ,  show me the wound that my eyes have caused .
but where is my love ?
i’ll do that ,  my lord .
in the time since he left egypt ,  he could have traveled an even longer distance .
so ,  sir .
i’m begging you .
for hecuba ?
tell him there's a letter arrived from my master with his horn full of good news; my master will be here before morning .
isn’t she down so late, or up so early?
when fools cry ,  you remain stony .
hello ,  curan .
let the earth hide you!
why ,  what do i care ?
goodbye, dear mother.
have you got eyes ?
and if our navy wins tomorrow ,  no doubt our army will do their part .
no.
what ,  gertrude ?
who would that be ?
why ,  romeo ,  are you crazy ?
yes ,  honestly; because ,  look ,  the sins of the father are to be laid on the children; so ,  i promise you ,  i’m afraid you .
i will go lose myself ,  wandering up and down throughout the city .
if we do meet again, we'll smile indeed; if not, it’s true this parting was the right thing to do.
too cruel any where .
are you up?
no ,  cousin ,  i'd rather cry .
it was most terrible to hear .
macbeth!
goodbye .
caesar brought many captives home to rome, whose ransoms filled the national treasury.
madam ,  i’ve come here to try to make you like him .
here is the list of every man's name, who are thought to be the best in all athens, to play in our play before the duke and duchess at night on their wedding-day.
my ancestors drove tarquin from the streets of rome when he was called a king.— "speak, strike, revenge!
bully - monster ,  coragio !
are you any kind of philosopher yourself ,  shepherd ?
with a doctor’s help he might recover and become an ass again .
ho!
you remember that time i sat on a big rock by the ocean ,  and heard a mermaid ,  on a dolphin's back ,  singing such a sweet and melodious song that the rough sea became calm when it heard it ,  and certain stars shot madly out of their orbits to hear the sea - maid's music ?
awake !
often i have heard of  “ sanctuary men ,  ”  but until now i’ve never heard of  “ sanctuary children .  ”  my lord ,  you’ve won me over this time .
yes ,  it faded away when the rooster crowed .
twenty crowns ?
what’s going on, wife!
what do you want, laertes, that i shall not my offer before you ask?
sir paris, i will make a desperate offer of my child's love.
what's the matter ?
i'll go to my book; because still ,  before supper time ,  i must complete a lot of business relating to these two .
then ,  if you dare to acknowledge it ,  i’ll take up my quarrel with you .
your worm is your only emperor for diet.
give me comfort .
iago?
caesar .
under captain gower ,  my liege .
i would give you some violets ,  but they withered all when my father died .
then desdemona and othello will go back to venice .
o, teach me how i should forget to think.
i’ve changed my mind now and partly believe in omens .
i swear i won’t ,  sir .
so confess your sin freely now .
what's this?
i am too old to be engaged to someone so young!
what ,  aren’t you a christian ?
by the door .
then leave him out.
what have you heard from her ?
marcus luccicos ,  isn’t he in town ?
here ,  catch this box .
you have said so .
at home ,  my lord .
so, like a painted tyrant, pyrrhus stood, and, as if not giving in to his will and body, did nothing.
if my horse doesn’t ride better, i must become a borrower of the night, for a dark hour or two.
i will not be faced or bested .
i’ll get my revenge before i leave this house .
we’re searching on land ,  but he’s lost in the sea .
strike the drum .
gentlemen all, i suspect this trash to be a party to this injury.
if you'll sit down ,  i'll carry your logs the while .
i doubt you’d thank me in the end ,  but she’s rich ,  all right ,  very rich .
a noble prisoner!
a pound of man's flesh ,  taken from a man ,  is not so valuable ,  or profitable either ,  as flesh of mutton ,  beef ,  or goat .
oh ,  correct it completely .
now ,  tell me—which of my bad qualities did you fall in love with first ?
we’re sitting ducks for the french ,  if they only knew it ,  for there is no one guarding it but boys .
i’m so sorry .
now go ,  and hurry back .
down with the capulets!
only adam ,  rafe ,  and gregory were ready .
call out my household servants .
don’t come near until you hear me call.
i forgot .
with all of them at once: they work together to create such an entirely evil person that no good ever manages to enter the mix .
which one will start yammering first ,  gonzalo or adrian ?
curse my father’s ambition !
i really like the work .
i swear ,  at the moment i really couldn’t tell you how i ended up here .
good sentences ,  and well said .
i ran into her recently at the edge of the forest ,  looking for sweet presents for this hateful idiot ,  and i scolded her and argued with her .
but, for your private satisfaction, because i love you, i’ll let you know.
don’t say that—unless you want to be one of my friends .
give me my amour.
do the boys carry them away?
god bless you, sir!
how full of meaning his replies sometimes are!
officer ,  i’ll take the responsibility from you ,  and the blame too .
in any case ,  antonio assured the duke they weren’t with bassanio on his ship .
my dear master ,  my captain ,  my sovereign ,  let me say before i strike this fatal blow: farewell .
you are welcome; take your place .
i guarantee it will .
you are welcome, sir, to cyprus.
don’t let him leave out the color of her hair .
he doesn’t need our mistrust; since he tells us our duties and the directions for what we have to do .
get on your nightgown, in case we are called by chance and it shows us to be watchers.
let’s go; now all is well .
i’m happy about that .
they shall, nerissa; but in such a costume that they’ll think we are finished with that we don’t have.
look ,  here comes the woman you love .
in two months—a month before this loan is due—i expect to earn more than three times that much from my investments .
i’ll get him to come here ,  and you can ask him yourself .
alas ,  what does this gentleman mean ?
she would have died later anyway .
if you are so fickle ,  what do you want with a guy who is known for his faith ?
it’s your presence that draws out this blood from his empty veins .
it’s going feel like twenty years until then .
the terms of our estate may not endure with danger so near to us as his craziness seems to get worse by the hour.
o my heart, your hope ends here!
are you going to watch again tonight?
go ahead; you aren’t, cassius.
leave me and do what i told you to do .
very near ,  and approaching fast .
i wouldn’t even hear your enemy say so, and you shall not violently throw those words to my ear, to make my ear the keeper of your own report against yourself.
the son ran away .
is there no play to ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
yes ,  sir .
who ,  me ?
why ,  do you know if any harm's intended towards him ?
we'll hear a play tomorrow.
since my beauty no longer pleases my husband ,  i’ll weep away what’s left and then die with weeping .
a braggart ,  a rogue ,  a villain ,  that fights by the book of arithmetic !
as a favor to  nope .
i wish this trick would be over .
why don’t you laugh?
come ,  go with me ,  read this over as you go; beautiful jessica shall be my torchbearer .
men’s eyes were made to see things ,  so let them watch .
conquer ,  crush ,  conclude ,  and kill !
what ,  not a whore ?
he’s at home ,  my lord .
hello to you too ,  sir .
then go quickly to friar lawrence' cell; a husband waits there to make you a wife.
be brave and do well !
shame on you !
and so you do .
curse the day !
i love you with so much of my heart that none of it is left to protest with .
why do the roses in your cheeks fade so fast ?
i beg you .
your fortune stood on the chests there ,  and so did mine ,  as it works out; because courting here until i worked up a sweat ,  and swearing promises until my mouth was dry with oaths of love ,  at last ,  if her promise lasts ,  i got a promise of this beautiful one here to have her love ,  provided that you were lucky enough to get her mistress .
it was obviously a hit .
i would die of pity to see someone else in my condition .
oh ,  if you could speak ,  i might hear you call caesar an ass who’s been outsmarted !
that’s true ,  it’s your beauty’s fault .
will he tell us what that pantomime meant ?
if you'll come to supper tonight, you may; if you will not, come when you are next ready to.
all traitors protest like this .
peace !
what are you talking about ! —how are you saying ?
you rogue !
from this ,  i conclude that many different elements can work toward one common end—just as many arrows ,  shot from different points ,  converge on a single target; just as many roads meet in a single town; just as many fresh streams empty into only one salt sea; just as the many radiuses of a
to you your father should be as a god, a god that created your beauty, yes, and a god who sees you as a piece of wax that he has imprinted, and it is within his power to leave the wax as it is, or to disfigure it.
i know my rights .
it’s too bad their beauty fades right when it reaches perfection !
you’re a traitor . —off with his head .
we were pushed out of power by evil deeds ,  as you call them .
you make me happy: i am full of pleasure .
bring me some light ,  gentlemen ,  i’ll bind the wound with my shirt .
i won’t be afraid until birnam wood remove to dunsinane .
it’s just midnight .
if he shows up tomorrow ,  i’ll give him what’s coming to him .
a fine woman !
lord hastings ,  will you go with me ?
do you know whom you’re talking to ?
do all men kill the things they don’t love ?
a goodly one ,  in which there are many cells ,  wards ,  and dungeons ,  denmark being one of the worst .
i have no personal reason to strike at him—only the best interest of the people .
now, most noble brutus, the gods are friendly today, so that we may, friends in peace, increase our days to old age!
you were you the clerk that is to betray me ?
bernardo?
hang on !
well then ,  confess and live .
but until that time, i receive your offered love like love, and won’t do it wrong.
we mean well by going to this masquerade ball ,  but it’s not smart of us to go .
both of which ,  master constable— you have .
she was so young ,  but she deceived her father so thoroughly he thought it was witchcraft !
our general put us early like this for the love of his desdemona ,  whom we won’t blame .
come ,  you spirits that hear mortal thoughts ,  take away my womanhood; and fill me ,  from my head to my toes ,  full of most terrible cruelty !
and i will give you another one .
it’s a good thing i’m like a little pot and warm up quickly ,  or else my lips themselves would freeze and stick to my teeth ,  my tongue to the roof of my mouth ,  and my heart would freeze in my belly ,  before i managed to get thawed out .
i hear his footsteps .
i’ve seen her claim to be dying twenty times before ,  and for far less reason .
how did he become crazy?
there was a noise ,  that’s certainly true .
father ,  what news ?
there’s nothing wrong with that, but still be patient in all.
she speaks, but she says nothing.
murder!
didn’t you hear a noise?
a husband ?
richard loves richard ,  that is ,  there’s just me and myself here .
does your other mouth call me?
i follow you .
oh ,  what a long ,  tedious ,  exhausting night !
some holy angel fly to the court of england ,  and unfold his message before he comes so that a swift blessing may soon return to our country that suffers under a cursed hand !
i would not be delayed.
let go of it !
and ,  as the speaker of any prologue should ,  i ask you to hear our play courteously and to judge it kindly .
what ,  are we having a feast ?
a beast that lacks the gift of reason, would have mourned longer— married my uncle, my father's brother, but no more like my father than i am like hercules.
where is montjoy ,  the herald ?
where am i going ?
is it possible?
the less they deserve ,  the more your generosity is worth .
and good ones ,  too .
is rosaline ,  who you did love so dearly ,  so soon forsaken ?
please ,  do so .
if you weren’t my brother ,  i’d leave this hand of mine on your neck until i’d pulled out your tongue for talking like this .
if there’s anyone in this assembly ,  any dear friend of caesar’s ,  i say to him that my love for caesar was no less than his .
i wouldn’t change my mind even if she were
but is it true, salanio?
amen, amen, i say to that fair prayer, and then my life end when i end loyalty!
as much to him ,  otherwise his thanks is too much .
poor tom ,  your cup is empty .
and i think she’s at least thirty .
to testify is not proof, without wider and more open tests than these thin habits and poor probabilities of modern liking prefer against him.
what does she need ?
sir, i will answer anything.
say, if you would rather hear it from our mouths, or from our masters’?
come, sisters, let’s cheer him up, and show him the best of our delights.
me too .
but suppose i did all the things you named out of love for her .
you taught me language ,  and all i can do with it is curse .
please don’t cry .
listen ,  signor bassanio ,  there’s nothing to worry about .
what’s that noise?
how many infatuated people go mad with jealousy !
i beg you ,  youth ,  don’t put another sin on my head by urging me to fight .
my head is pounding .
life ,  living — death has it all .
she wants to speak with you in her bedroom before you go to bed.
excuse me ,  sir .
ha ,  ha !
well ,  did you think about what i said ?
do you want to sink ?
being done, there is no pause.
francis flute ,  the bellows - repairman ?
yes ,  his chest !
then, brutus, i have really misunderstood your passions, which is why this my heart has forgotten thoughts of great value, worthy thoughts.
i wish i were senseless ,  sir ,  so that i wouldn’t feel your punches !
therefore this project should have a plan b or c, that might hold if this first one failed.
i think that on a night like this ,  when the wind blew the trees so gently that they didn’t make a sound ,   on a night like this ,   on a night like this ,   on a night like this ,
indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
does caesar come to the capitol tomorrow?
i shall answer that better to the community than you can explain the swelling of the negro's belly; the moor is pregnant by you ,  launcelot .
peasblossom .
well ,  sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady .
just as you mention it in the charge .
those are the awakened father and his friends .
yes ,  my lord ,  i played the part of a gossip and brought him the news .
a plague on the tyrant that i serve !
to know what my errand is, madam.
why ,  what ,  kinsman !
seem?”, madam!
o very lame and powerless conclusion!
i think their traveling to perform a play is a new innovation .
what do you think of his belief ?
how is lieutenant cassio ?
the earth has swallowed all my hopes but she ,  she is the last hope i have .
look, how he laughs already!
we'll hear it, antony; you shall read us the will,—caesar's will!
will you leave and hide ?
is he all right ?
please ,  signior gremio .
what of that ?
and so return to you ,  and nothing else ?
who's here ?
still, i beg you, if you think it’s okay, or that it may be done, get me a chance to speak briefly with desdemona alone.
what else?
donalbain.
it means peace and love and a quiet life ,  supremacy based on reverence and profound respect ,  and—not to go on and on about it—everything that’s sweet and happy .
madam, good night.
come ,  sweet audrey .
in the meantime ,  hold on ,  and be patient .
don’t tone things down or exaggerate them out of hostility .
alas the day !
it fits, when such a villain is a guest.
either to die or to swear to avoid the society of men forever.
o happy dagger !
two such opposed kings set up camp in man, as well as in herbs, grace and rude will; and where the worse human trait is predominant, the canker death eats up that plant very soon.
and let the laboring ship climb hills of oceans as high as olympus, and duck down again as low as hell is from heaven!
come out ,  you frightened man .
and the one who commands us is our king .
one of these three chests contains her heavenly picture.
good night ,  lieutenant .
how may the duke be satisfied with that, whose messengers are here by my side, on some urgent business of the state, to bring me to him?
they’ll set their watches to whatever time we say .
i wish i had!
come ,  come with me ,  and we’ll do the job quickly .
charles ,  i thank you for your loyalty to me ,  and you’ll see that i’ll reward you .
yes ,  my lord .
i remember the first time caesar ever put it on .
he only lived long enough to become a man ,  and as soon as he proved that he was a man by fighting like one ,  he died .
you don’t know whether it was wisdom or fear that made him flee .
and it’s a wonder that he’s late ,  because lovers always keep ahead of the clock .
here is a sick man that would speak with you .
shall we give up and drown?
now the time is right for us to speak ,  and we do so with imperial authority .
he’s only known you for three days ,  but he’s already treating you like a close friend .
o, i have bought the mansion of a love, but i have not moved in, and, though i am sold, i have not yet been enjoyed.
i’m not feeling well, and that’s all.
i am afraid ,  standing in this night ,  that all this is only a dream ,  too promising and sweet to be real .
cure her of that .
but if i were brutus ,  and if brutus were antony ,  there would be an antony to ruffle up your spirits ,  and put a tongue in every wound of caesar ,  that would move the stones of rome to rise and rebel .
your highness ,  could you send me on a mission to the ends of the earth ?
be patient with him ,  brutus .
but his ambition—for that ,  i killed him .
there is a man who loves you better than your husband could .
what about that ?
popilius lena doesn’t speak about our plan ,  because ,  look ,  he smiles ,  and caesar doesn’t notice anything .
is this the prince ?
why are we talking about this ?
i am but crazy north - north - west .
what are you doing here in elsinore ?
gentle gods in heaven ,  please let me die .
oh ,  i’d never be that cruel .
your physical health matters more than your reputation .
you look tired .
now get out of here !
what are you doing ,  wearing your best clothes ?
thisbe ?
no ,  someone has to give her away or the marriage isn’t legal .
i would take nine years to kill him.
sweet ,  don’t scorn her like that .
lead, boy.
i hope you both get drenched with a dew as evil as what my mother used to collect with a crow’s feather from the poison swamps .
yes ,  madam ,  he lies beyond my reach .
why are you silent ?
as i came down ?
damn you for mocking me .
if you dare to fight today ,  come to the field; if not ,  come when you’ve got stomachs .
three civil brawls ,  started by a meaningless comment ,  by you ,  old capulet ,  and you ,  montague have three times disturbed the quiet of our streets and made verona’s senior citizens take out sober mementos of war and fighting ,  to use them again as weapons ,  in their old hands ,  rusted from not being used ,  as hate has rusted your families .
don’t be afraid of that.
i might as well go before the king of france ,  who took my youngest daughter without a dowry ,  kneel before his throne ,  and beg him to give me a tiny pension to stay alive .
we shall, my lord, perform what you command us.
o god, she comes!
is my deserving no better than that ?
and now you’re asking for money .
but gods ,  you give us faults so we’ll be human .
up.
hush!
that’s treason !
i don’t know what you and other men think of this life ,  but as for me ,  i’d rather not live at all than live to worship a man as ordinary as myself .
yes, in just those words.
bring out the suspects.
he’s asking him to tell the story again .
now we find that one traveler out of five will bring us news about them.
o my love!
don’t worry about that .
tell me ,  has this thing appeared again tonight ?
now ,  hamlet ,  listen .
if we don’t obey them ,  they’ll suck the life out of us or pinch us black and blue .
i’ll go call the guards .
when i’ve plucked this rose ,  i can’t make it grow again; it will have no choice but to wither and die .
don’t you know me, father?
i’d rather be a peddler .
he killed your relative ,  brave mercutio ,  and then young romeo killed him .
where is metellus cimber ?
i do believe it, and i ask your pardon.
and i of all ladies most dejected and wretched that has tasted the honey of his musical vows, now see that noble and most royal mind, like sweet bells jangling, out of tune and harsh to hear, that form and feature of blown youth without equal totally crazy.
your lordship speaks most truly of him .
he has no children .
i never offended you in my life; never loved cassio except with such general lawfulness of heaven as i might love .
can i have a word with you privately ?
i should have been more unfriendly ,  i must confess ,  but you overheard ,  before i was aware of you ,  my true love’s passion .
what is your name ?
tell me that .
good mr .  mustardseed ,  i know you very well .
see ,  now i have you .
marvelous sweet music !
the enemies of caesar shall say all this; then, in a friend, it is cold shame.
if you have a gut feeling, obey it.
madam, it just so happened that certain players we passed on the way here.
we don’t think so ,  my lord .
i'll “re” you, i'll “fa” you.
arm, arm, and attack!
but you should hurry anyway .
take me by the hand and say ,   “ harry of england ,  i am yours .  ”  no sooner shall i hear that word than i will tell you straight out ,   “ england is yours ,  ireland is yours ,  france is yours ,  and harry plantagenet
yes, demetrius has my approval; and everything i own i will leave to him; and she is mine; and all my rights concerning her, i leave to demetrius.
excellent ,  very good .
that’s the truth .
what, aren’t you answered yet?
my lord, this is my daughter here asleep; and this lysander; this demetrius is; this helena, old nedar's helena.
where is she?
who is that man?
since he went to france, i have been in constant practice.
tomorrow is wednesday .
i beg your gentle pardon; these bloody accidents must excuse my manners ,  that so neglected you .
you say only “i,” and i shall poison that bare vowel more than the death-darting eye of the serpent hatched from an egg.
my poor heart is so aggravated for a kinsman, madam, that if you could only find a man to bear a poison, i would help to mix it, so that romeo should, when he gets it, soon sleep in quiet.
and now, laertes, what's the news with you?
this shows that the corpse they follow did, with a desperate hand, commit suicide.
no, sure, i cannot believe that he would steal away so guiltily, seeing you coming.
they’re the rebels.—o conspiracy, shame on you for showing your dangerous eyes by night when evils are most free?
caesar, i will.
but
still, caesar shall go out, because these predictions are not only for caesar but also for the world in general.
this caesar was a tyrant .
your threats are no stronger than her whining . —helena ,  i love you .
i could do a great job with hercules ,  or any other part that requires ranting and raving .
here comes my wife now .
well ,  i’m nearly finished .
i’d give half my dowry to keep anything bad from happening to him .
keep an eye on him .
please ,  marry us .
we only drink toasts to my niece .
they come from the four corners of the earth to kiss this shrine and see this living ,  breathing saint .
from tripolis ,  from mexico ,  and england ,  from lisbon ,  barbary ,  and india ?
if i grow here in your favor, the harvest is yours.
damn you for teaching me your language !
that blind head of yours was created to make me rich .
i'll be a devil-porter no further.
though our lives — your spirits shine through you .
you told us you want something .
i have no doubt that you love me .
are you a god ?
you tell her ,  widow !
whoo - hoo !
good words are better than bad strokes, octavius.
my hard-working servant, ariel!
what do i find here?
she was worried about my absence ,  and about the fact that young octavius and mark antony have grown so strong—which i found out at the same time as the news of her death .
look with your ears .
aside.
you were sent for .
sit down; because you must now know more .
you’re appealing to a son who hates you .
the person who’s poor and contented is rich enough .
what my man say ,  when my soul was tossing and turning and i didn’t pay attention to him as we rode ?
the time between six and now must be spent most preciously by us both.
o how honest!
as we were trading blows ,  more and more people showed up to join the fight ,  until the prince came and broke everyone up .
by foul play, as you say, we were lifted from there, but blessedly helped here.
you need a crutch, a crutch!
i don’t know how .
soldier ,  you are .
come ,  let’s go to the king .
there is a poor old man who ,  purely out of love ,  has limped after me for miles .
he struck me from under your arm .
carry him away .
do you acknowledge the contract ?
this is a classic example of the idiocy of the world: when we’re down and out—often because of our own excesses —we put all the blame on the sun ,  the moon ,  and the stars ,  as if they forced us to be bad ,  or the heavens compelled us to be villainous or stupid .
that’s out of tune ,  sir .
oh ,  how fitting it is that that vile name should perish on my sword !
but what’s your trade ?
so go away .
o, you and i have heard our fathers say there was a brutus once that would have fought the eternal devil to keep his status in rome, as easily as he would fight a king!
crazy ”  i’m calling it ,  since how can you say what craziness is except to say that it’s craziness ?
yes ,  that’s me .
who calls hamlet ?
you had better go in.
i am very sorry about it ,  sir .
let’s go .
no, don’t let me.
how sweet it would be to actually have the woman i love ,  when merely thinking about love makes me so happy .
go ahead ,  then .
what, hello!
i will get peter quince to write a ballad of this dream.
we heard that once you were served eight wild boars roasted whole for breakfast—for only twelve people !
my lord !
oh god ,  i have a soul that predicts evil things !
draw your sword ,  scoundrel ,  or i’ll slice your thighs like flank steak .
o day!
who’s that ?
i see you all are bent to set against me for your entertainment .
where do you want me to go to respond to these charges ?
verona's summer does not have such a flower of a man .
he doesn’t dare come there for the candle ,  because you see ,  it’s already out .
if they let you off ,  then we’ll have to assume that lady justice has lost all her power .
creet .
show me, show me.
the prince has made the match ,  and may god bless it .
is it your own desire to come here?
well ,  you have really comforted me a lot .
just say it .
get me ink and paper, and hire some horses.
no ,  i don’t hear your honest friend; i hear you .
but i smile at swords ,  laugh scornfully at weapons ,  brandished by man that's been given birth by a woman .
there is no written in this news that makes them believable .
they would be better sentences, if you followed them well.
you’re not one of pinch’s patients ,  are you ,  sir ?
well ,  it certainly wasn’t true for richard !
your grace does me as great an honor as could be wished by any of his subjects .
if she restrained your rowdy knights ,  she had such a good reason that you can’t blame her for it .
weren’t you ordered ,  on penalty of— why dover ? —let him answer that question first .
ah, ha!
go, gratiano, run and catch him; give him the ring, and bring him, if you can, to antonio's house.
i’m not a doddering old fool who brags about the things he did when he was young ,  and what he would do now if he weren’t so old .
listen !
he's what he is.
she’s not feeling well .
my children too?
please put away your dagger ,  and pull out your wit .
it must be your imagination then ,  and not theirs .
i can’t love him .
i don’t dare ,  sir .
how shall we spend the lazy time ,  if not with some delight ?
truly ,  it must be an english tailor sent here for skimping on the fabric for a pair of a french hose .
my father… i think i see my father .
where is metellus cimber?
come ,  montague; because you are up early to see your son and heir taken down even earlier .
of all places ,  i don’t like the
what do you call the carriages ?
don’t be so silly as to think that caesar has such rebel blood that will be changed by the same things that change fools; i mean ,  sweet words ,  low ,  crooked curtsies ,  and playing up to me like a puppy .
you don’t need it yet .
i forget: but these sweet thoughts even refresh my work, keep me very busy, at least when i do it.
banquo !
o ,  it is too true !
god help you ,  foolish man .
i can’t tell what you and other men think of this life; but ,  for myself alone ,  i would rather not live to be in awe of such a thing as i’m .
oh ,  god !
to visit you ,  my lord ,  no other occasion .
the prince will give you the death penalty if you get caught .
is there such a place ?
there's a problem in these sighs .
give me the cups ,  and let the kettle drum speak to the trumpet ,  the trumpet to the cannon man outside ,  the cannons to the heavens ,  the heavens to earth ,  'now the king drinks to hamlet .  ”  come ,  begin .
what proof is there ?
ready, if it pleases your grace.
signior montano ,  your trusty and very valiant servant ,  salutes you like this ,  with his free duty ,  and begs you to believe him .
what is your name?
is he unable to repay the money ?
awake, dear heart, awake!
that’s what i’m afraid of .
o treason of the blood !
oh ,  noble sir !
what other news?
i feel i should recognize you and that man
come on .
since i have your permission to go ,  i’ll hurry; but ,  until i come back again ,  i will not sleep ,  and rest will not keep us two apart .
i’ve said too much in telling you of it .
and what is that music ?
come here ,  boy .
dearly ,  my delicate ariel .
no ,  i won’t cry any more .
i wish i could live longer .
how dare you trade and traffic with macbeth in riddles and affairs of death; and i ,  the mistress of your charms ,  the secret contriver of all harms ,  was never called to offer my part ,  or show the glory of our art ?
well, let him go.
i’ll give you such reasons for killing him that you’ll feel obliged to snuff him out .
i am so much a fool ,  that if i stayed longer ,  it would be my disgrace and your discomfort .
my lord ,  his throat is cut .
leave wringing of your hands.
you sound like a pack of wolves howling at the moon .
did you say all?
well ,  she’ll be there .
give me my principal ,  and let me go .
won’t they say later, if they should go on to become common players, which is likely, and their lives are no better, that their writers did them wrong to make them exclaim against their own success?
your state is the more gracious ,  for it is a vice to know him .
can he deny it ?
juno sings her blessings on you.
give me the daggers .
this sounds as if i am praising of myself; so, no more about it; listen to other things.
and for three months .
oh ,  my lord ,  you once said that lazy weeds grow fast .
let a beast be lord of beasts, and his cattle shall stand at the king's dinner table.
will your highness please grace us with your royal company?
yes ,  better ,  sir .
i’ll follow .
sweetheart ,  go on .
i will chop her into pieces.
yes ,  my lord ,  and of calf - skins too .
eyes, do you see?
on the contrary.
this afternoon, sir?
and here comes the warden ,  just in time .
what do you think about it?
great kings of france and england ,  i owe you both equal service and loyalty .
what a piece of work is man !
a bloody deed !
how do you understand the scripture ?
i don’t care what he told you in latin .
be angry whenever you want to, it’ll have a purpose; do whatever you want to, dishonor shall be a joke.
i think he bought his shirt in italy ,  his hose in france ,  his hat in germany ,  and his behavior everywhere .
if these are true eyes in my head, here's a goodly sight.
hey ,  brabantio !
i must think about that.
he’s still sleeping ,  ma'am .
what kind of storm is this that blows so opposed to nature ?
well then, confess and live.
speak ,  man .
i’ve got a plan that will fix everything .
what are you saying ?
if you’re going to die ,  be quick about it so you can catch the king’s departing soul or follow him ,  like obedient subjects ,  to his new kingdom of endless night .
no, messala.
confusion has now made his masterpiece!
my lord, on the platform where we watched.
listen ,  hussy—is this man one of your customers ?
her reputation was as pure as the snow ,  but now it’s as dirty and black as my own face .
it is the most difficult to understand dog that ever stayed with men.
with all my heart ,  i give you that thing which ,  if you didn’t already have it ,  i’d try with all my heart to keep from you .
he waits very nearby ,  to know your answer ,  whether you'll admit him .
and that’s how my brother robbed me of my life ,  my crown ,  and my queen all at once .
god save you ,  worthy general !
then make a circle around the corpse of caesar, and let me show you the man who made the will.
i’ll fight at sea .
i confess it is my shame to be so crazy in love ,  but it is not in my virtue to fix it .
i don’t think it’s a good idea.
i know how his mind works .
i'll get me to a place with more space ,  and there speak to great caesar as he comes along .
forgive me, cousin!
what do you see?
these times of sorrow don’t really give me a chance to pursue love.
the son and heir of old tiberio.
yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him ?
be gone !
what villains have done this?
murder, indeed, should not be a church activity, because then revenge should have no bounds.
dromio ,  what stuff of mine did you put on a ship ?
i have much to tell you about them .
yes ,  you are .
when this wood burns ,  it’ll weep for making you tired .
it's the wind .
i won’t pretend to be the devil’s porter anymore .
you may leave .
i say my daughter is my flesh and my blood .
if you’ll take a simple man’s advice ,  don’t be here when it arrives .
o!
these crisscrossing laces do cut off the circulation in my legs a bit ,  but who cares ?
we must die, messala.
everyone, quiet.— peace!
okay .
take it off and throw it on the ground .
what you told me it haunts me like a nightmare—he’s got my handkerchief !
a spirit?
well ,  well .
if luck wants me to be king ,  luck may crown me without my doing anything at all .
why do you come ?
well ,  well ,  jealous oberon !
hurry ,  hurry ,  close the curtain quick .
he was crazy to run away .
peace then !
gentlemen ,  play here ,  i will reward your pains ,  something that's brief and say ,   “ good morning ,  general .  ”  hey ,  fellows ,  have your instruments been in naples ,  that they sound as horrible as like this ?
i didn’t think he had been acquainted with her .
well ,  my good lord ,  i'll do it .
have you forgotten the foul witch sycorax ,  who had grown in to a circle with age and envy ?
who ,  sir andrew aguecheek ?
i don’t want to hear you sing .
my soul ,  and not my child !
what ,  the necklace ?
the french have reinforced their scattered men .
be comforted .
i order you ,  go home .
and those who leave their valiant bones in france ,  dying like men though buried in your dunghills—they’ll be remembered ,  too .
have him come to me here ,  soldier .
no, sir, their hats are drawn over their ears, and half their faces are buried in their cloaks, so that i couldn’t tell from their clothes or faces who any of them are.
she was false as water.
o, give me your hand, one written along with me in sour luck's book!
what’s this noise ?
an honest guy who’s as poor as the king .
still, don’t be afraid scotland has harvests enough to satisfy you, of your very own.
persist with desdemona well, and you are sure of it.
widow dido; yes, widow dido.
should we do that ?
if our general had been his old self ,  we would have won .
poor antony !
i’m sorry my noble brother is suspicious of me .
how are you ?
but as i said ,  the general isn’t really in the mood to hear music now .
nothing he did in his life became him so much like the leaving it; he died as someone one who had studied his own death, to throw away the dearest thing he owned as it were a careless trifle.
o you public commoner !
you will see me no more ,  whether he be dead or not .
so ,  tell people that you’re from epidamnum–otherwise all your goods will be confiscated .
i wish i might only see that man again !
he is .
the english army is near ,  led by malcolm ,  his uncle siward ,  and the good macduff .
i must protest your comments good heart, and in faith i will tell her as much.
dear man ,  calm your rage .
by our lady, your ladyship is taller than when i saw you last, by the height of a high-heeled shoe.
we’ll revenge his death .
that dreamers often lie .
but she is now mark antony’s wife .
oh !
my husband will never get a moment’s rest ,  i’ll keep him up at night talking about you until he runs out
did he lose his other eye ?
my lord bassanio ,  and my gentle lady ,  i wish you all the joy that you can wish for yourselves; because i am sure you can’t wish any from me; and when you two mean to make the bargain of your vows solemn ,  please ,  even then ,  let me be married too .
come on ,  shovel .
i don’t ,  sir .
if he’s as good as a saint but is black like a devil ,  i’d rather he hear my confession than marry me .
asses are made for bearing ,  and so are you .
now i’ll tell you the other story about my journey .
she is worse than wicked .
i forgot.
let’s stay and watch .
is it they?
good luck ,  sir .
farewell !
what would you have said ,  my young york ?
if i’d been a god i would’ve let the sea sink inside the earth before it had a chance to swallow up that ship and all the people it was carrying .
fairies, be gone, and stay away.
have a nice day !
i don’t know any fancy ways of talking about love ,  only to say right out ,   “ i love you .  ”  if you press me any further than with the question ,   “ do you really ?  ”  my love scene is over .
you haven’t got dreams or fantasies which busy care draws in the brains of men .
why ,  for that too .
why not !
cassio ,  i love you; but never more be an officer of mine .
i suspect that i have committed some offence to the city and you have come to reprimand me for not knowing better .
you ,  like an exorcist ,  have brought my dead spirit back to life .
offspring of a witch, come here!
macbeth is ready to fall ,  and the powers above show us the way .
and you just stand by too ,  and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure !
you lie ,  you disgusting tyrant .
this news is absolutely true: mark antony is expected to arrive in rome at any hour now .
therefore ,  love each other in moderation .
this book in many girls' eyes shares the glory, that with gold clips locks in the golden story; so you will share all that he possesses, by having him, you are doing no less than making yourself.
i have received letters that say the same .
be quiet .
i beg you not to do this ,  my lord .
haven’t you totally dismissed my honor and integrity in your anger ?
no ,  i’ll recite it for you right now:  “ de hand ,  de fangres ,  de nails— ”   “ de nails ,  ”  madame .
what ?
as shafalus to procrus ,  i am to you .
o heart as black as death !
o husband !
sure ,  since beauty’s power can more easily change a good girl into a whore than the power of goodness can change a beautiful girl into a virgin .
then, if we lose this battle, you’re contented to be led in triumph thorough the streets of rome?
the same people who say he gets drunk with you every night .
before you can say, “come” and “go,” and breathe twice, and cry “so, so,” each one, tripping on his toe, will be here with tricks and pranks.
oh, how i love you!
if it pleases you to dine with us.
do i talk to you sweetly?
do you think that i’m no stronger than my sex ,  being so fathered and so married ?
my father instructed you in his will to give me a good education .
this is exactly the false way that verses gallop along .
either my eyesight is failing me ,  or you look pale .
there are more things in heaven and earth, horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
my name is proculeius .
oh ,  wouldn’t it be great if property ,  rank ,  official positions ,  and other honors were earned only by merit ,  not by corruption ?
what an idiot i was to think this drunkard was a god and to worship such a stupid fool !
but since you come from him ,  you’re saturated with his healing spirit .
now you say it was  “ knock at the gate ”  ?
actually ,  i’d like a few pounds of grass .
it is a creature that dotes on cassio ,  as it is the whore's disease to trick many and be tricked by one .
i thank my noble lord.
happily the seas, and different countries with other things, shall cure and get rid of this problem in his heart that has such a hold on him, which his still active brain makes him like this from being himself.
it sounds more like you’re insulting me .
goodbye ,  good sir .
they have me tied to a stake .
goodbye, my lord.
i’ll ask only benedick to come with me ,  for from the top of his head to the soles of his feet he’s a joker .
give us the swords ,  come on .
yes, so i fear; and my fears are more than they were.
go ,  get going .
run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames with blind tears, a cloth on that head where lately the crown had stood, and for a robe, about her thin loins, exhausted from child-bearing, a blanket, caught up in the panic of fear, whoever had seen this, with a very poisoned tongue, would have pronounced treason against fortune's state.
the name of cassius honors this corruption ,  and ,  for that reason ,  punishment hides his head .
what’s this ?
hail !
the lord keep him from the title of king !
i’m glad to see your highness .
come on ,  you .
there on the ground, made drunk with his own tears.
of course i will .
a piece of him.
i’m afraid it will make you too hot ,  too .
the foulest fate would be most appropriate for me now in this latest phase of my life .
why ,  he drinks your dane dead drunk easily; he doesn’t even sweat to defeat your german; he makes your hollander vomit before the next round can be poured .
i say ,  get away from me !
you will pretend to be a schoolmaster and offer to teach the girl .
take your cues from my own despair .
are those men waiting for us ?
oh ,  i wish i was the glove on that hand so that i could touch that cheek .
no ,  keep flattery for kissing the hands of those who can pay well .
evil villain !
tell me ,  don’t you have a virtuous and lovely daughter named katherina ?
i’ll put another question to you .
if i were to die now ,  i could die very happy; because ,  i’m afraid ,  my soul is so absolutely content ,  that no other comfort like this one can follow unknown death .
i humbly thank you, sir.
a good laugh .
why, you will quarrel with a man that has a hair more or a hair less in his beard than you have.
that’s the way to show me friendship .
please find a way to give me some time alone with desdemona ,  if you think that’s all right .
let me see them .
it is my lady; o ,  it is my love !
therefore the dukes of berri ,  bretagne ,  brabant ,  and orléans shall advance ,  and you ,  prince dauphin ,  will swiftly entrench and fortify our fortress towns with men of courage and the means to defend themselves .
on my honor and by my word ,  if you outstay the ten days ,  you will die .
that’s how intense things like love are quickly destroyed .
oh ,  proud death ,  what banquet are you preparing that you’ve needed to knock off so many princes at one stroke ?
who are you talking about ,  niece ?
this is the truth, or let benvolio die.
our separate journeys shall keep us both the safer.
who's there ?
are you satisfied ,  jew ?
how late is it ,  lords ?
my brother and your uncle, called antonio— please, listen to me,—that a brother should be so guilty of breaking a trust!—he, whom i loved in all the world, after you, and i let him manage of my city, since, at that time, it was the first of all the cities, and prospero the best duke, being considered so in dignity, and for the liberal arts, without equal: since these two items took up all my time in study, i cast the government on my brother, and i became a stranger to my city, being absorbed and wrapped up in my secret studies.
come, a passionate speech.
come this way ,  my lord .
you certainly made me believe you did ,  my lord .
let’s go ,  tom .
it’s still a long time until daybreak .
so we need another prologue to tell everyone he’s not a real lion .
yes ,  sir ,  they’re ready .
he was becoming very spirited when he was in school .
he’s been gone for nine years and he’s leaving again soon .
oh ,  don’t fight by sea ,  noble emperor !
a lazy disposition ,  my good lord .
you’re not taking one step toward an enemy .
but if it is a sin to be selfish about honor ,  i am the most guilty soul alive .
what’s the difference ?
where’s this so - called king ?
an illicit kiss !
and then his clerk ,  who went to a lot of trouble with the writing ,  begged for mine .
your royal father's murdered .
but she ,  because she was mortal ,  died giving birth to the boy; and ,  for her sake ,  i am raising him ,  and ,  for her sake ,  i will not part with him .
where’s my son edmund ?
and ,  being men ,  the contents of caesar’s will would enrage you .
away, you black giant!
remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
drowned, drowned.
who put out the light ?
you kiss by the book.
messala !
i was deceived all the more .
a good deed in a naughty world shines like that.
when was it she last walked ?
what, are you hurt?
where's this girl?
how are you ,  charmian ?
why ,  all these should be in the lantern; for all these are in the moon .
i came here to tell you—i’ll make this short ,  since she’s already been talked about for too long—the lady is unfaithful .
i will harp on it till my heartstrings break .
the world’s gone downhill since fake humility started passing for compliments .
come ,  sit down on this flowery bed ,  while i play with your amiable cheeks ,  and stick musk - roses in your sleek smooth head ,  and kiss your fair large ears ,  my gentle joy .
he was only a fool that brought my answer back.
but come ,  your italian country dance; forget your epilogue .
i have already condemned and excused myself .
oh my god ,  they have run away and left me asleep !
then both ,  or one ,  or anything you like .
come ,  mistress ,  you must tell us another tale .
take some men and horses and go to her .
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven, having some business, do beg her eyes to twinkle in their sockets till the stars return.
therefore ,  my lord , — damn it ,  what a waste he makes of his words !
otherwise, you would have made your tale large.
if i answered that question ,  i’d be making confession to you .
will we hear from you before bedtime ,  catesby ?
it’s not an insignificant happiness ,  therefore ,  to be well situated in regard to financial resources: having more than enough comes at some time or other to old men ,  but having a sufficient income lasts longer .
still here's a spot .
lean forward .
amen to that ,  lady .
oh friendly friar !
you and i ,  and honest casca ,  we have epilepsy—we’ve fallen .
she shall be buried next to her antony .
let’s not fight over this fellow .
jailer, look to him.
be assured ,  if words are made of breath ,  and breath is made of life ,  i have no life to breathe what you have said to me .
when a great leader dies he doesn’t die alone but ,  like a whirlpool ,  draws others with him .
thank you for his present and your trouble .
no one has ever faked passion as skillfully as this ,  then .
our forces are ready for them .
o setebos ,  these are brave spirits indeed .
i know i’m going to die .
hmmph !
and look ,  here’s publius ,  come to fetch me .
why the hell did you come in between us ?
damn it !
o ,  here's a wit of kid leather ,  that stretches from an inch narrow to 45 inches wide !
keep up your courage ,  man !
what ,  you’re leaving it with lysander ?
no ,  he refused it publicly ,  in open court .
a quarrel ,  hey ,  already !
farewell, dear father.
are you afraid to act the way you desire ?
but who comes here?
she’s dead to me .
i must join the duke for lunch .
i loved wine and gambling ,  and had more women than a turkish sultan keeps in his harem .
juliet, i’ll wake you up early on thursday early.
will you be ready ?
did cicero say anything ?
can he be angry ?
macbeth !
this deed will be very welcome to lorenzo.
she’s sending this ring back to you ,  sir .
seek !
and he would have deserved it too .
thou canst not teach me to forget.
you’re doing the right thing .
which way did he who killed mercutio run?
now summon up the image of stealthy murmurs and engulfing darkness filling the wide vessel of the universe .
no ,  no ,  he is dead ,  go to your death - bed ,  he never will come again .
truly, sir, so i can wear out their shoes to get myself more work.
do you know him ?
what are you thinking about so seriously ?
some  now listen ,  either give me my ring or give me the necklace .
kind gentlemen ,  every day i turn the page ,  your pains are registered where i can read them .
do it ,  england ,  because ,  he rages like the pace of my blood ,  and you must cure me .
what did you say ?
go, captain, send my greetings to the danish king.
how did she become a widow ?
with my officer!
i’ll fight every one of these devils if i have to ,  one at a time .
tell her to come here .
why do you ask?
or should i say it’s her uncle ?
you were the prettiest baby that i ever nursed.
poor man !
if her eyes were in the night sky ,  they would shine so brightly through space that birds would start singing ,  thinking her light was the light of day .
ay ,  that left pap ,  where the heart beats . — thus die i ,  thus ,  thus ,  thus .
if caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would have done the same thing.
this is as bad as the tortures of hell .
shifts ,  friends ,  to southampton .
you sun-burned reapers, tired of august, come here from the rows you have plowed and be happy: make it a holiday: put on your rye-straw hats, and meet every one pf these fresh nymphs in country dancing.
my master's .
well done !
when they won’t give a penny to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay out ten dollars to see a dead indian.
i’m done ,  my lord .
i'll wait no longer.
let me talk ,  good lady .
be assured of this ,  that the magnifico is very popular; and has ,  in his office ,  a voice equal to twice the duke's .
where is his body ,  messala ?
how goes it ,  friend eros ?
why?
i’m the one who— i’ll get right on that .
and listen !
who knows what the lord protector thinks ?
how did he receive you, let me be convinced.
if i don’t do all this ,  never trust me again .
you shall be king.
the boy was going to support me in my old age !
i think i do .
evil spirit ,  i want to talk some more .
buzz, buzz!
my husband!
and you, gratiano, are you sincere?
and before i remove this charm from her sight — because i have another herb that is the antidote — i'll make her give that boy to me.
so will we all .
oh ,  heavenly mixture !
since he went to france ,  i have been in constant practice .
your complaint against me is perfectly understandable ,  but i still insist i’ve done everything i could to help you .
for now ,  because of this fearful night ,  there’s no noise or walking in the streets ,  and the weather reflects the work we have at hand ,  most bloody ,  fiery ,  and most terrible .
what ,  with worms and flies ?
a rhyme i learned even now from someone i couldn’t dance with.
and, after that he came, away sad?
why are you mumbling to yourself instead of answering the order i gave you ?
o single-soled joke, only singular for the singleness!
you’re a king’s advisor .
ding ,  dong ,  bell .
you’re not too sharp ,  casca ,  and those sparks of life that should be in a roman ,  you want ,  or else ,  you don’t use what you have .
all right ,  i understand .
i wouldn’t have dared !
where’s your sparkle now ?
no sir ,  trust me ,  i do not .
gentleness ,  go away to heaven ,  and fire - eyed fury be my guide now !
no die ,  but an ace ,  for him ,  because he is only one .
o you vile king, give me my father!
not one, my lord.
yes ,  let’s go to sleep .
i’m begging you .
i can’t let my lips say his name;  “ no man must know .  ”
yes ,  the state’s half can be reduced ,  but not antonio’s .
what time of the day is it?
do you in conscience think ,  tell me ,  emilia ,  that there are women who abuse their husbands in such a disgusting way ?
knock ,  knock !
i gave her such a one; it was my first gift .
but ,  uncle ,  you know how to bear with him .
then we can all three be comrades on our way to france .
by this sword,— that killed the shah, a persian prince, that won three battles with sultan solomon,— i would out stare the angriest eyes that look, outbrave the most daring heart on the earth, pluck the young, sucking cubs from their mother, yes, taunt the lion when he roars for prey, to win you, lady.
cambio .
a friend should tolerate his friend's shortcomings ,  but brutus makes mine greater than they are .
your hands are quicker than mine for a fight; my legs are longer, though, to run away.
i’ll have no halves .
even the traits that become me most kill me when you don’t approve of them .
i’m dying to see the prince .
did you call ,  my lord ?
i hope demetrius comes to love you as much as you love him !
a very gentle beast, and of a good conscience.
will you tell a monstrous lie, being only half fish and half a monster?
but i haven’t eaten anything yet .
he’s somewhere else in the house .
why was i born to this keen mockery?
if you make any more complaints ,  i will open an oak and put you inside it until you have howled away twelve more years .
i will be angry .
drink when i order you ,  servant - monster .
but if the cause is not just ,  the king himself will have a lot to answer for ,  when all those legs and arms and heads chopped off in battle shall join together on judgment day crying ,   “ we died at such and such a place .  ”  some will be swearing ,  some crying for a surgeon ,  some for the wives that are destitute without them ,  some about the debts they owed ,  some for their children left unprovided for .
come ,  hold your peace .
i beg you ,  when you see that act begin ,  even with the very criticism of your soul watch my uncle .
the handkerchief !
i have heard it said so.
it is that .
she blushes from guilt ,  not modesty .
no ,  sir .
therefore i say again that he must have used some powerful drug or magic potion on her .
i can’t believe it .  ”  the tears fell from her eyes like holy water .
he’s dead .
i’m sure you both remember me .
yes ,  and truly; you had better answer .
may god reward you for your kindness !
o ,  have mercy !
come on ,  casca ,  you and i will go see brutus at his house before sunrise .
a very ribbon in the cap of youth, but necessary too, for youth doesn’t look less well in the fun and reckless clothes that it wears than old age settles for his black furs and woolens, showing health and seriousness.
our friendship in our schooldays ,  our childhood innocence ?
drowned!
i didn’t refuse you .
their names are marked .
just as when the sun rises and shipwrecking storms and terrible thunder stop, so from that man, who seemed to bring comfort, discomfort got worse.
here ,  sir !
do you note me ?
he is not yet arrived and i don’t know anything only that he's well ,  and will be here shortly .
i never heard so musical a noise ,  such sweet thunder .
do you agree that we shall tell him, because we love him and it is our duty?
come, now a dance and a fairy song, then, for the third part of a minute, leave here, some to kill bugs in the musk-rose buds, some to kill red-mice for their leather wings, to make my small elves coats; and some to quiet the noisy owl, that nightly hoots and wonders about us.
why would she write to edmund ?
you lie ,  you nasty ,  ungrateful thing !
if you forgive my mistake ,  i swear i’ll never break an oath with you again .
really ?
wife, children, servants, all that could be found.
that’s what i’ll do .
oh ,  noble caesar !
and then ,  sir ,  ask if he does this ,  does he -  - what was i about to say ?
i found it in my bedroom .
what do you think ,  norfolk ?
have a good morning .
i pick the younger one .
or shall i think she's enclosed in the walls of this silver one ,  being worth ten times less than traditional gold ?
thanks ,  good egeus .
welcome ,  publius .
the reports came in as thick as hail and every one of them sang your praises in your great defense of the kingdom ,  and poured such praises down before the king .
it’s absurd .
if it will not speak ,  then i will follow it .
you’ll just lie there like sleeping dogs and say nothing .
who is leading his men ?
the tawny cat has meowed three times .
these are the messengers from my sister and the king .
and what’s her story ?
for michael cassio ,  i would swear i think that he is honest .
get rid of your low - class trapping ,  ”  she said .
let's tell him goodbye .
by mary ,  heaven forbid !
and what are you going to do after you’ve spent your money ?
our reasons are so full of good regard that were you, antony, the son of caesar, you should be satisfied.
because, coming from there, my son is lost; and, in my opinion, she is too, who is so far away from italy, that i shall never see her again.
i’ll answer for everything .
who is this ?
did you talk with him ?
where is she ?
that’s the curse of military service .
what will you do?
let me go with him .
what foul play did we have that we left there ?
my lord ,  you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king .
hopefully ,  your wedding day is only postponed .
please call him and tell him to come back here .
what is thisbe ?
it doesn’t seem right or suitable to my position to be a witness (which i will be if i stay), against the moor.
ambition shouldn’t be so soft .
it’s since the wedding of lucentio ,  come pentecost as quickly as it will ,  it’s some five - and - twenty years since we masked .
sister ,  let’s eat and stop worrying .
the table of contents says it’s in the first chapter of his heart .
down with the montagues !
i know the good king and queen have sent for you.
does she ?
he has, my lord; but be well assured, no more than he'll deny.
well said !
do you forget from what a torment i freed you?
come out .
what will you do ?
what, rome?
and isn’t your husband an honorable man ?
you speak well.
well gentlemen ,  we’ve heard our assignment .
i don’t know what you mean by that ,  but i’m sure caesar fell down .
i went beyond what i was going to say to tell you about it .
it’d be better to be delirious and unaware of anything .
any man that can write may answer a letter.
you’re taking it more seriously than i meant it .
did you dare to look at him ,  being awake ,  and have you killed him sleeping ?
my good lord ,  be quiet .
don’t let the nurse stay with you in your bedroom .
i would like to get to know you better ,  good master cobweb .
which, among the many women, my daughter, being one, may stand out, though in my eyes, none can match her.
fare you well.
goodbye to my happiness !
if i have killed your children ,  i will have children with your daughter .
i think his soul’s in hell ,  my lady .
never a moment of peace !
now he tells how she brought him to my bedroom.
i hate him because he is a christian; but more, because, in his low simplicity, he lends out money free, and brings down the rate of interest with us here in venice.
for love to appear in his true likeness ,  he would have to be as cupid is: naked and blind .
go, order my goblins that they torment their joints with dry convulsions; shorten up their muscles with long-lasting cramps, and make them more spotted with pinches than a leopard, or mountain cat.
he laughs at the scars of love when he’s never felt love’s pain .
has caesar gone to the capitol ?
please ,  leave me alone .
for no man, sir.
i cannot think you are my son.
do you agree that we shall tell him ,  because we love him and it is our duty ?
oh ,  i remember that very clearly !
but it’s enough to know that the day will end ,  and then the end will be known .
no ,  kate ?
besides, it’s might be interpreted as silly, because someone says "break up the senate until another time, when caesar's wife shall have better dreams.
speak ,  because my heart is full .
you and i will be behind a curtain then ,  listening to their encounter .
o stephano ,  two neapolitans escaped !
i followed you here in the chase, not like a hound that hunts, but like the hunted by the hound.
i'll charm the air to give a sound, while you perform your antic round; that this great king may kindly say, our duties did his welcome pay.
good morning ,  brutus .
not a jot, not a jot.
the cold wind blows through the hawthorn trees .
you’re too forgiving .
on my knees, what does your speech mean?
unlawfully?
the best news of all is that we’ve located our king and our men .
my lord ,  could i have a word with you ?
goodbye now!
you can judge for yourself what i mean .
but if you decide not to marry me ,  you’ll marry this faithful shepherd instead ?
it was the lark, the messenger that says it’s morning, no nightingale.
poor ropes, you are deceived, both you and i; for romeo is exiled.
it is myself, i mean, in whom i know all the particulars of vice are so grafted that, when they shall be opened, black macbeth will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state will respect him as a lamb, being compared with my unlimited evils.
oh, i am out of breath in this happy chase!
why do you need even one ?
it’s this servantlike mentality that’s keeping you unmarried .
you ,  or any man living ,  may be drunk at a time ,  man .
shame come to romeo!
who does he accuse ?
out, loathed medicine!
someone knocks .
be assured, if words are made of breath, and breath is made of life, i have no life to breathe what you have said to me.
you once stole my position; now you get to have the grief that goes with it .
they are ,  my lord .
good - bye for a while .
come ,  some music !
the three - beat rhythm is a good for dancing ,  and the church bells chime—one ,  two ,  three .
is it really possible that you could like her right after meeting her ?
goodbye ,  you beautiful ,  cruel woman .
and you are hidden ,  sweetheart ,  even in the lovely garments of a boy .
please, dear, come here.
sir ,  i wish she would give you as much of her lips as she often gives me of her tongu .  ,  you'd have enough .
i wish i were your bird.
listen to you ,  instructing me like a parrot would .
good gentlemen ,  look like you’re rested and happy .
i’ll ask him for my job back; he’ll tell me i am a drunkard !
it’s time we hit the road .
this is an asp’s trail ,  and these fig leaves have slime on them ,  just like the kind that asps deposit on the caves by the nile .
good lady ,  don’t be angry with the child .
we'll wait upon you .
come, come, the reason.
is this really happening ?
the people in the street cry “romeo,” some “juliet,” and some “paris,” and all run with open outcries toward our tomb.
which ones are the malefactors ?
did you, by indirect and forced methods, subdue and poison this young maid's affections?
this is healthy talk .
even if his joy is joy, still throw such aggravation on it that he won’t stay happy for long.
i would gladly prove so .
o ,  these men ,  these men !
what does romeo say ?
well ,  i’m sorry for your niece .
he never did harm that i heard of .
sir ,  you shall understand what has happened ,  which ,  as i think ,  you don’t know .
good night .
no more talk about killing yourself ,  okay ?
if you will just look sweet ,  then i am protected against their hate .
come, tears, confound; out, sword, and wound the pap (heart) of pyramus.
o comfortable friar!
there’s a cliff there that leans precariously over the deep sea .
be silent ,  or else my magic spell will be broken .
you have a good ear.
we had some food and some fresh water that a noble neapolitan ,  gonzalo , —who ,  being then appointed supervisor of this plot , — gave us out of his goodness ,  with rich garments ,  linens ,  stuffs ,  and other necessities ,  which have since been very useful: so ,  of his gentleness ,  knowing how i loved my books ,  he supplied me ,  with volumes from my own library that i prize more than my dukedom .
and then ,  of so gentle a disposition !
test me, and i will re-word the problem, which madness would run away from.
ha ,  ha !
let me weep for feeling such a loss.
madam ?
absolutely ,  you idiot .
no, my lord, rather with anger.
my husband !
i know it’s the sun that shines so bright .
what’s the news among the merchants ?
only to satisfy my thought, no further harm.
ask for me tomorrow ,  and you shall find me a grave man .
i did ,  my lord ,  and i have reason for it .
i’m afraid that a worse man will take his place .
blow, wind!
tunis was never graced before with anything equal to their queen .
now i could drink hot blood, and do such wicked deed that the day would shake nervously to see.
by heaven, i saw my handkerchief in his hand.
the strangers are all gone .
instead of crying ,  let’s keep hold of our swords and defend our fallen homeland like honorable men .
a ship you sent me to find ,  to book passage out of here .
come on ,  you can be as angry as any guy in italy when you’re in the mood .
has your lord given you any orders to negotiate with my face ?
are you going riding you this afternoon ?
god's bread!
is it gone ?
give me that boy and i will go with you .
murder’s always horrible ,  but this one was especially horrible ,  weird ,  and unnatural .
where is your son?
o, tell me!
goodbye .
give me your hand first.
on my life i swear to you that your youngest daughter doesn’t love you least .
ah ,  my poor princes !
sweet montague, be true.
please ,  who ?
it makes me mad .
i’ll put her on that .
take him safely through the lines .
add defiance to all this and ,  by way of conclusion ,  tell him that he has betrayed the men who follow him ,  whose death sentence has been pronounced .  ”  my king and master’s message delivered ,  my task is done .
he couldn’t see you .
that was a fine fanfare ,  boys .
go tell him about this .
because he is surely on the island.
come here ,  sir seacole .
i don’t know .
o lady ,  speak again !
i hope you have good weather to set your mind at ease .
oh ,  my bad luck has forced honest men to become traitors .
a good name .
i find you ready ,  and if you were duller than the fat weed that rots itself in ease on the river bank ,  you wouldn’t move on this .
for shame, for shame!
therefore your relatives are no obstacle .
come ,  come ,  you answer me stupidly .
all right ,  you’ve had your say ,  but we’ll let the forest judge whether or not you spoke wisely .
rulers abuse their power when they separate it from compassion .
in his wild fit ,  hearing something stir behind the curtain ,  he whips out his knife ,  cries 'a rat ,  a rat !
quiet now !
that death is unnatural that kills for loving .
but how long will her beautiful life last ?
she's the worse for all this.
i’m starting to feel murderous urges .
where ?
i’m speaking for the king ,  but i look like myself .
as he smiles, othello shall go crazy; and his ignorant jealousy must interpret poor cassio's smiles, gestures, and happy behavior all wrong.
ay ,  and wall too .
thank you kindly ,  sir .
drowned ?
the servants of the duke and my lieutenant ?
for those of old, and the recent titles heaped on them, we remain your hermits.
my words go up ,  my thoughts stay here below .
run to the capitol, and nothing else?
hail ,  caesar !
o, pardon, sir, it does, and the gray lines over there that adorn the clouds are the messengers of dawn.
don’t believe any of us .
make me see it ; or at the least prove it so that the accusation has no hinges or loops to hang a doubt on, or woe on your life!
what judgment shall i dread, if i have done no wrong?
i’ll tell you .
and so ,  good - bye .
i demand to be satisfied .
don’t i have reason ,  hags that you are ,  impudent and overbold ?
i’m not a man who talks a lot ,  but i thank you .
that’s because the murderer is alive .
thieves !
emilia ,  run to the fortress ,  and tell my lord and lady what has happened .
you listen: your romeo will be here at night .
i assure you ,  my man is as true as steel .
have you stolen it from her?
no ,  it’s casca ,  someone who’s going to work with us .
agreed .
saint valentine’s day is past; do these forest - birds begin only now to make a couple ?
he’s a clown ,  but ,  as i say ,  proud to own dirt .
the worthy baron of ross .
there's enough wood inside.
the sun will not appear today .
listen ,  listen !
onward ,  lover boys !
please don’t be angry .
noses, ears, and lips.
no, i can only make a joke for a specific occasion.
he’s full of wise sayings and up - to - the - minute anecdotes: that’s the way he plays his part .
any comfort he gets is like cold oatmeal.
oh strange !
why ,  look there !
o, she will sing the savageness out of a bear!
my lord ,  do as you please ,  but if you think it’s ok ,  after the play ,  let his queen mother talk to him all alone and beg him to share his problem .
god ,  not our strength ,  be praised !
what’s this ,  my lord ?
i’ve rented land from you and your father for eighty years .
the voice kept crying ,   “ sleep no more !  ”  to everyone in the house .
then confess what evil is there mingled with your love.
but it wasn’t until this afternoon that he broke out into violence .
since they plotted with the dark god of the underworld to kidnap my daughter, i have sworn not to be in her and her blind boy's scandalous company.
good - night .
lead me to where you’re standing .
let the bitter hussy kick, our saddles don’t pinch.
so be cheerful .
where's publius ?
come on ,  come on .
you’re a fool .
and make him break his promise with fair aegle, not to mention with ariadne and antiopa?
let me see one.
who cares for them?
what an enormous thing for us to forget ! —edmund ,  tell us ,  where’s the king ?
yes ,  it’s emilia .
a plague on both your houses !
everyone ,  please leave us alone for a moment .
where’s your conscience now ?
the candle is burning in your study ,  sir .
speak .
i am too bold ,  she’s not speaking to me .
but where did this happen ?
great mark antony is a widower now .
get yourself to a convent .
moth!
that’s a step in the direction of love .
the news accuses the speaker; each minute turns up a new one .
you, sir, always told me i couldn’t do anything without bidding.
how can i describe you that will make you appeal to the young woman and will also agree with god ,  the law ,  my honor ,  and her feelings ?
let’s not get gloomy in our reminiscing ,  since there’s no reason for sadness anymore .
if i can catch him once at a disadvantage ,  i’ll feed the ancient grudge i bear him until it’s fat .
there’s my hat !
my lord?
my brother has a daughter who looks exactly like hero; this girl is heir to both our estates .
i admit the cape .
oh ,  you lowlife !
ah, servant [to 2 capulet], by my faith, it grows late; i'm going to sleep.
god have mercy ,  what do you want with me ?
the old toad is calling me.
what did you say ,  uncle ?
there’s no room for the old man and his followers .
true ,  noble prince .
it has to be of mild ,  tender ,  and delicate climate .
here comes the owner of one piece .
here ,  i’ll tell you my whole plan in my carriage ,  which is waiting for us at the gate .
who is he that is going out the door now?
gentlemen, you are welcome to elsinore.
what's the news ?
they thought they would do some naughty charm on this man and maiden, who have vowed that they will not sleep together until the god of marriage's torch is lit, but they thought so in vain.
why should that name be proclaimed more than yours ?
put him within the reach of my sword ,  and if he escapes ,  may heaven forgive him as well !
your father was always a holy man, and holy men have good ideas when they die; so the lottery that he has thought up in these three chests, made of gold, of silver, and of lead, by means of which whoever chooses the right chest chooses you, will, no doubt, never be chosen by the right man except the one you shall rightly love.
it is a very deep oath .
o banquo ,  banquo !
can’t i say something ?
pindarus !
i pity your situation .
i’m glad about it.
benvolio, who began this bloody fight?
night's candles are burned out ,  and the joyful day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops .
you gave us a good false impression last night.
alas ,  how shall this bloody deed be explained ?
it is offended.
let him bless you too .
the throng that follows caesar at his heels, of senators, of praetors, common suitors, will crowd a feeble man almost to death.
swagger ?
o, what a thoughtless and bloody deed this is!
we'll hear the will .
no, cassius, no.
but the special thing about it is , —which is indeed almost beyond belief , — as many verified  “ special things ”  are .
i know you have no choice .
whose house ?
you dance and prance and lisp; you call god’s creations by pet names ,  and you excuse your sexpot ploys by pleading ignorance .
so you shall hear of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts, of accidental judgments, casual slaughters, of deaths planned by cunning and false causes, and, in this result, mistaken motives fallen on the planners' heads.
madam ?
i am glad of it .
do you know the boy who was just speaking to me ?
how does lieutenant cassio ?
when was the last time you saw her sleepwalking ?
pass the word along .
just listen to him .
it’s certain .
no ,  let them go .
the tears have gotten a small victory by that ,  my face was bad enough before my tears took their revenge .
take me to octavius .
you’re competing for
the noise they make will cause demetrius to awake.
you were sent for ,  and there is a kind of confession in your looks ,  which you are not very good at hiding .
let him alone; i won’t follow him any more with useless prayers.
aren’t i hermia ?
some twenty of them fought in this black fight, and all those twenty could only take one life.
that’s true .
i can’t do everything i want to ,  but i’ll help you as well as i can .
don’t you
you be my witness that ,  against my will ,  as pompey was ,  i am compelled to set all our liberties on one battle .
you horrid slave ,  you can’t be trained to be good ,  and you’re capable of anything evil !
what sights ,  my lord ?
what lady is that ,  who make the hand of that knight richer ?
well, i maybe i’ll see you; because i would very gladly speak with you.
demetrius, i will keep my word with you.
what about falconbridge ,  that young english baron ?
romeo, will you come to your father's?
stay within .
were you born here in the forest ?
do you know why the king of france suddenly went back home ?
oh ,  i wish i had my rosary !
what committed!
oh that great ,  funny guy ,  bottom !
yes ,  i did ,  my lord .
please ,  tell me your cure .
you all saw that on the lupercal feast day i offered him a king’s crown three times ,  and he refused it three times .
how are you ,  my love ? —demetrius and egeus ,  come with us .
meet me and gratiano at gratiano's house in about an hour.
you were wrong to give away your wife’s first gift so thoughtlessly ,  a thing you swore to keep on your finger and bound faithfully to your body .
i don’t hold you ,  and yet i still see you !
why didn’t i just adopt a beggar’s child left at my doorstep ,  whose shame and dishonor i could have denied ,  not being its true father ?
the merchandise you bring from rome is too expensive for me .
if you’ve offended him ,  i’ll fight you .
what’s the news among the merchants?
only one word with one of us?
where love is great, the littlest doubts are very fearful, where little fears grow great, great love also grows there.
but she ,  your subject ,  hates such a king .
i’m not sick, if brutus have any exploit worthy of the name of honor in hand.
in any other case ,  he is .
oh ,  what a wonderful new world ,  that has such people in it !
it has been done already ,  and the messenger is on his way .
i was just knocking to see if anyone was home .
she’s a virtuous and holy lady .
i know that some danger approaches you nearby.
here’s a drink .
then i will go to my mother by and by .
o stephano, two neapolitans escaped!
that’s what the prince and my fiancé say .
he’s lost his comrades and is wandering around looking for them .
only i have spoke with someone who saw him die, and he reported that he confessed his treasons very frankly; he begged your highness for pardon; and he seemed very sorry.
that’s always true .
send me away.
if we look like musicians to you ,  you can expect to hear nothing but noise .
by what ,  in the name of god ?
he would never have spoken to me like this .
not so ,  sir ,  neither; i know my duty .
in truth ,  you are to blame .
go in ,  and don’t cry .
have you ever slept before while such a terrible deed was done ?
my comfort is that old age ,  that poor preserver of beauty ,  can’t make my face any worse than it already is .
there's another.
you must be over there .
iago ?
couldn’t a worm ,  a poisonous snake ,  do as much ?
therefore ,  as i am supposed to ,  receive it from me .
give him this money and these letters ,  reynaldo .
let’s follow them .
peace ,  i have done .
what does he say about our marriage?
o ,  banish me ,  my lord ,  but don’t kill me !
sister ,  i have a lot to say about things that concern us both .
if you say so, i hope you will not kill me.
i’m not sure it’s true ,  but just the suspicion is enough for me .
it blushes ,  is easily embarrassed ,  and stages regular uprisings in a man’s heart .
your honor is the reason you are leaving .
you runaway, you coward, have you run away?
i didn’t tell you to get rid of one love and replace her with another .
at such a time ,  i’ll make sure my daughter meets him .
your overwhelming kindness makes me weep .
he lays it on .
why do you go around in circles when you could get to the point ?
then my love is humble .
use them according to your class.
tell the hot - headed duke that i… but no ,  not yet .
i think i saw you there ,  you wise man .
it shall penetrate your understanding that i am innocent of your father's death ,  and am most sincerely in grief for it ,  as day penetrates your eye .
i would have met you by sea and again by land .
i’m going ,  i’m going .
caesar’s knave will bring him a message for us .
yes, and wisely.
o villain !
holy saint francis !
i’ll stop by before you go to bed ,  and tell you what i’ve heard .
it doesn’t matter .
good peter ,  to hide her face ,  for her fan has the fairer face .
why ,  caesar straddles the narrow world like a giant ,  and we petty men walk under his huge legs and look forward only to dying dishonorably ,  as slaves .
give me my armor .
perhaps i say this before a willing slave.
you are a council member: if you can command these elements to be silent ,  and make this present storm more peaceful ,  we won’t need to work the ropes anymore .
tomorrow ,  if you want to speak with me ,  i’ll come to your house; or ,  if you like ,  come to my house ,  and i’ll wait for you .
a woman owes her husband the same loyalty a subject owes his king .
i beg you ,  listen well .
and why do you blame me for loving you ?
and if it doesn’t go well ,  then you can keep her hidden in a nunnery ,  the best place for someone with her kind of dirtied reputation—away from the public’s eyes ,  tongues ,  mind ,  and insults .
here is your husband, like a mildewed ear of corn poisoning his wholesome brother.
it cannot be .
it was a huge mistake to let old gloucester live after we blinded him .
i’m well ,  and probably will be for a while ,  as i hear that four feasts are being prepared .
to show our simple skill, that is the true beginning of our end.
my husband ?
where’s metellus cimber ?
i’d give forty pounds to be safe at home right now .
give me," said i.
are you sure of that ?
i’m a friend ,  a friend who knows you well .
i lead a charmed life ,  which can’t be ended by anyone born from a woman .
do you see nothing there?
the worthy baron of ross.
but while i say one prayer!
not the adam from the garden of eden ,  but the adam from the jailhouse .
if i come back from the battlefield again to kiss those lips ,  i’ll be covered in blood .
would you take it away ?
what, can’t hear me?
what a spoiled little brat .
even those you usually enjoy, the tragedians of the city.
knock ,  knock !
i swear i’ll smack you if you hit me again .
madam, i shall obey you in all fair commands.
those are the things we pine for now .
you’re like one of those guys who walks into a bar ,  slams his sword on the table ,  and then says ,   “ i pray i never have to use you .  ”  by the time he orders his second drink ,  he pulls his sword on the bartender for no reason at all .
calls my lord ?
if you are mine ,  i'll give you to my friend; if you aren’t ,  go hang yourself ,  beg ,  starve ,  die in the streets ,  because ,  by my soul ,  i'll never acknowledge you exist ,  and you will cut off from your inheritance .
good night ,  you amazing woman ,  you .
i never saw the necklace ,  so help me heaven !
i have to ask you something .
a daughter?
get going !
will you tell a monstrous lie ,  being only half fish and half a monster ?
your sister's drowned, laertes.
and, for mine part, i didn’t dare laugh for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the bad air.
what ,  all my children and their mother dead in one fell swoop ?
wait until i read the letter .
her only flaw—and it’s a big one—is that she’s unbearable ,  a total witch ,  so much so that i wouldn’t think of marrying her myself ,  not even if i were in a worse fix than i am ,  not for a whole goldmine .
believe me, i can tell her age to the hour.
we will hear caesar's will .
how did you tolerate prison ?
no, i know not.
i’m not insulting you .
he’s laughing already !
good idea .
ha !
where is that messenger ?
o iago!
yes, what of that?
a hare, a hare, a hare!
how it grieved macbeth !
quiet !
good morning ,  general .
do not muse at me, my most worthy friends.
not true .
yes.
i will go tomorrow ,  (and i will go early in the morning) to the weird sisters .
no sound, no word?
by janus, i don’t think so.
how badly this candle burns!
you’re going to lose this bet ,  my lord .
here ,  here i will remain with the worms that are your maids .
no more about that ,  please .
play ,  trumpets !
where is he staying ?
let’s go ,  guys !
cheer up and be at peace .
oh ,  blessed ,  blessed night !
is there division between my lord and cassio ?
i don’t want you to know, dearest sweetheart, until you can applaud the deed.
then you would have to go beyond heaven ,  beyond earth .
ha !
then be so kind as to show them in .
i see no blood ,  no wound .
i’ll court his favors .
this is the woman, but not this the man.
what music?
whatever you see first when you wake up ,  think of it as your true love .
swallows have built nests in cleopatra’s sails .
what ,  ho !
half a share.
that’s what i hear .
good gentlemen, when are we getting together?
he was perfect in everything .
i’m sorry ,  my friend .
you’re a lover .
tell me, just to be sure, even though i'll swear that i know your voice.
but don’t go to my uncle's bed, act as though you have a virtue if you don’t have it.
good !
i swear ,  you speak the truth .
i dreamt tonight that i feasted with caesar ,  and unlucky things directed my imagination .
care keeps his watch in every old man's eye ,  and ,  where care lodges ,  sleep will never lie; but where a perfect youth with an empty brain rests his limbs ,  golden sleep reigns there .
and will you give me permission?
take these keys and get more spices ,  nurse .
come, for the third, laertes.
when he is asleep drunk, or in his rage, or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed, at gaming, swearing, or committing some act that has no element of salvation in it, then attack him, so that his heels may kick at heaven, and that his soul may be as damned and black as hell, where it goes to.
tell us what you know about this affair .
there must be something in the air here .
my lord, we were sent for.
hail !
i admit i’m only a woman ,  but i’m still a woman from a noble family—i’m cato’s daughter .
i see this has dashed your spirits a little .
he’s rushing on his way here right now ,  and regan’s with him .
i’m going now .
i believe drink gave you the lie last night .
what had he done to you ?
yes, my good lord.
leave me alone now ,  iago .
can’t any prayers reach your heart ?
the sun was not as true to the daytime as he was to me .
he’s awfully proud ,  but his pride suits him .
my good lord, please re-phrase what you’re saying, and don’t give me answers so far away from my question.
what have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
laertes, you shall hear them.
go home ,  you lazy men .
then the writer imitated the one i composed to my steed ,  for my horse is my mistress .
there's not one of them, except for his house i don’t keep a bribed servant.
wait a minute .
i never saw such a shameful act .
i don’t know what you’ve done to upset him ,  but someone has challenged you to a duel .
oh ,  i’m very scared something awful has happened .
anyone who has a house to cover his head has a good head on his shoulders .
well ,  thank you .
please come closer . — make the music louder ,  please !
well ,  my good lady .
that’s merciful but a bit careless .
ha, they pluck out my eyes!
i knew him, horatio, a fellow of infinite fun, of most excellent imagination.
no more than i am well released from .
what villain ,  madam ?
and let the laboring ship climb hills of oceans as high as olympus ,  and duck down again as low as hell is from heaven !
and, sir, tonight, i beg you that we may dine together.
virtue itself can turn to vice ,  if it is misapplied; and vice is sometimes dignified by action .
your children caused you trouble in your youth ,  but mine will bring you comfort in your old age .
now we can shout ,   “ congratulations ,  congratulations ,  my lord and lady !  ”  my lord bassanio ,  and my dear lady ,  i wish you all the joy i can wish for .
who wouldn’t get sad thinking about things like that ?
the duke’s trumpets .
listen ,  if you want a good laugh—and i mean a side - splitting one—then follow me .
in that case ,  i ask that for the sake of friendship and alliance you let that one item stand with the rest ,  and bestow your daughter on me .
his son was but a ward two years ago.
please go on .
no, not for all the world.
noble friends ,  let’s kill him boldly but not with anger .
i'll run from you, and hide in the bushes, and leave you to the mercy of wild beasts.
i know how to tell when someone is alive or dead .
you can see for yourself .
by mary, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine.
here’s to your health .
my lord bassanio, let him have the ring: let what he deserves, and with my friendship, be measured against your wife's commandment.
why ,  what should i be afraid of ?
have you heard anything to the contrary ?
all right then ,  legitimate brother edgar ,  i have to have your lands .
indeed, they are out of proportion; my letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
to whom?
this disturbed sky isn’t one to walk in .
is it lost ?
as i vowed ,  i will unite the york and lancaster families .
this is a horrible sight .
i'll follow you; i'll lead you in a circle, through bog, through bush, through more bushes, through brier; sometimes i’ll be a horse, sometimes a hound dog, a hog, a headless bear, sometimes a fire; and neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn, like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
i am a fool to cry at what i am happy about .
will it please you to see the epilogue ,  or to hear an italian country dance between two of our company ?
remember it ,  my lord !
we don’t think so, my lord.
a gentleman ?
this skull has been buried three-and-twenty years.
your mistress sent for me to come to dinner ?
and let him practice his music.
listen, she speaks.
there are many troubles brewing now that have yet to become full - fledged threats .
it’s like a cannon .
it eases the spirit .
wait !
othello ?
your praise has beaten you home .
surely ,  luciana ,  it’s already two o'clock .
i will leave here for verona tonight .
what ,  rome ?
whenever you like .
judge me in your wisdom, and wake up your senses, so you can be a better judge.
let the ship sail close to the wind .
so get down on your knees and beg mercy from the duke .
why ,  “ one fair daughter ,  and no more ,  the which he loved passing well .  ”  still harping on my daughter .
a dog from that house will make me angry enough to take a stand .
or is it some trick and no such thing ?
wouldn’t it be better—since i’m unusually tall for a woman—to dress myself like a man ?
be bright and jovial among your guests tonight .
i’ll go see my mother soon .
here i have few attendants and subjects none.
yes ,  sir ,  very well—i’m here in your orchard .
scrape the plates!
in such a time as this ,  it isn’t fair that every silly offense should uphold his criticism .
he doesn’t miss much .
i beg you, walk with me on the way a little; and say if i shall see you later tonight.
let’s look for some desolate shade and there cry our hearts out .
then you must take the truth i have to tell like a roman .
think on your sins .
by mary ,  farewell !
and you ,  sir ,  had me arrested over that necklace .
yes ,  if i know the language and the letters .
and as you know ,  his connections ,  if he put them to good use ,  might be enough to hurt us all .
now my sin has been taken from my lips by yours .
why ,  then the devil give him good of it !
that’s the one ,  sir .
but if i were smart enough to get out of this forest ,  i’d be wise enough to satisfy myself .
or stuff what he says into their pockets .
romans, countrymen, and friends!
pardon me, julius!
what people who pay him tribute follow him to rome, to decorate his chariot’s wheels with their chains and bonds?
believe me based on my honor ,  and have respect for my honor ,  so you can believe .
but i beg your pardon .
take it and do that for me ,  and leave me alone for a while .
drawing your sword on a woman ?
here comes antony .
he has a very gloomy attitude .
yes ,  you did .
i am very glad to see you ,  signior; welcome to cyprus .
back, foolish tears, back to your native spring.
alas, that love, whose eyes are blindfolded, should, without eyes, see ways to have his will done.
the tyrant's people fight on both sides; the noble barons fight bravely in the war; the day almost professes itself to be yours ,  and little is to do .
no ,  no; he's gone .
do so;— and let no man pay for this deed but we who did it .
really ?
o my dear gertrude ,  this worry ,  compared to a murdering piece ,  gives me more than enough death in many places .
yet ,  by your gracious patience ,  i will deliver a round truthful tale of my whole course of love ,  by what drugs ,  what charms ,  what invocation ,  and what mighty magic ,  because i am charged with such crimes ,  i won his daughter .
what ,  we’re going to die ?
take these too .
cupid—that blind bastard son of venus ,  conceived from a thought and anger ,  born from insanity ,  that blind ,  naughty boy who makes everyone else go blind just because he can’t see himself—let cupid judge how deep my love runs .
no, don’t press so close to me; stand a bit away.
she is unfortunate, indeed deranged.
how goes it now?
your lord knows what i think .
welcome, dear rosencrantz and guildenstern!
sleep well there on the ground .
i’ve told cowards to turn their backs on me and run .
yes ,  that’s true .
it’s strange ,  strange .
you hear the charges .
she's been made as fruitful as the free elements.
sadness over my son’s exile stopped her breath .
what kind of manners is it to go to a grave before your father?
if you tell your lady i’m here to speak with her ,  and bring her out with you when you come back ,  you might make me more generous .
caesar greets the queen of egypt and asks that you consider what you will ask from him .
love can transpose things that are low and ugly, having no good qualities at all, into things that have beauty and dignity.
he does nothing but frown ,  as if he wants to say ,   “ if you don’t want me ,  i don’t care .  ”  he doesn’t even smile when he hears funny stories .
o hell - kite !
well ,  what was your dream ?
can you remember a time before we came to this dwelling ?
his secret - keeping ,  i am sure ,  cannot carry his courage ,  because the goose cannot carry the fox .
why ,  the man who shortens his life by twenty years cuts off twenty years of worrying about death .
good man ,  even now ,  remember whom you have aboard .
this was the most unkind cut of all .
but, my lord, his majesty asked me to tell you that he has placed a great wager on your head.
ice-cold frosts freeze the fresh crimson roses; and on the old god of harmony’s chin and icy crown, is set a circle of sweet summer buds almost in mockery of the frost.
are you talking about the crown ?
i will see you tomorrow ,  then .
why are you acting so angry ?
i have sent to bid cassio to come and speak with you .
i found it in my bedroom; and he himself confessed just now that he dropped it there for a special purpose which would be bent to his desires.
believe what ?
kent’s been banished just like that ?
then ,  my queen ,  in sad silence ,  we dance after night's darkness .
where are my good fellows ?
and, if that’s not true, how should i wrong a brother?
i hear horses .
aside .
i’ve never seen him like this .
just as i did with the meat ,  i’ll make up some problem with the way the bed is made ,  and throw the pillow one way and the cushion the other ,  and the blanket over here and the sheets over there .
let them come—i don’t care .
what if her eyes were there, they in her head?
no .
it used to be the last ditch comfort of miserable people .
doesn’t she count her blessings that unworthy as she is ,  we have secured so worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom ?
what ?
what a wise judge !
can any prayers get through to you ?
let's figure out how to do this.
and no man with a reputation will tarnish that name with lies and bad behavior .
noble sebastian ,  you let your fortune sleep — die rather: wink while you are waking .
o prince!
o, treachery!
cicero ,  i’ve seen storms in which the angry winds split old oak trees ,  and i’ve seen the ocean swell ,  rage ,  and foam ,  as if it wanted to reach the storm clouds ,  but never before tonight ,  never until now ,  have i experienced a storm that drops fire .
in the meantime, do nothing, and let the investigation be do patiently.
what do you think about this change ?
but in fact it doesn’t say much .
and, although we lay these honors on this man, to ease ourselves of different, disgraceful burdens, he shall only carry them as the donkey carries gold, groaning and sweating under the load, either led or driven, as we point the way; and having brought our treasure where we choose, we then unload him and let him loose, like an unloaded donkey, to shake his ears and graze in the common fields.
what's the matter?
those that are married already ,  all but one ,  shall live ,  the rest stay the same .
the king ,  sir yes ,  sir ,  what about him ?
i would gladly do without that if he would only stay faithful to me .
six o’clock ,  at which time ,  my lord ,  you said our work should end .
no doubt ,  he’s kidnapped .
come, you spirits that hear mortal thoughts, take away my womanhood; and fill me, from my head to my toes, full of most terrible cruelty!
his letter’s going to be hilarious .
really ,  madam ,  i hear nothing .
i will put this napkin in cassio's room ,  and let him find it .
separate them .
there are no old gentlemen but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers.
romeo is coming .
o ,  let the heavens give him defense against the elements ,  because i have lost him on a dangerous sea !
i shall obey ,  my lord .
only how will you do for a father ?
may the gods bless you .
my deep trust in him made him deeply untrustworthy ,  arousing in him a treachery as big as my trust was—my trust which had no limit ,  an infinite confidence .
when the moon was shining ,  we did not see the candle .
why ,  then may you leave a panel of the great chamber - window ,  where we play ,  open; and the moon may shine in at that panel .
what does he say about our marriage ?
i know i can do it .
so sorrow's heaviness does heavier grow because my sleep has been interrupted.
no ,  if i had power ,  i should pour the sweet milk of concord into hell ,  disturb the universal peace ,  confuse all unity on earth .
i swear it’s a habitual lust ,  a list and hidden opening to the history of lust and evil thoughts .
rosencrantz and guildenstern are still going to england.
i’ll have him away tonight .
what do you say then about falconbridge, the young baron of england?
therefore be double-damned, swear you are honest.
you told me she got them ,  and that she promised to give me a little something in return soon ,  but nothing like that ever happens .
help me ,  help me !
heaven keep that monster from othello's mind !
i’m crying at how unworthy i am to give you what i want to give you and to take what i’m dying to have .
you speak well .
his love is blind ,  so it belongs in the dark .
and why does lysander deny that he loves you ,  when he loves you so deeply ?
i will have when you hear the rest of what i have to say .
is it fitting that ,  with the world divided into three parts ,  he should be one of the three to share it ?
is your master awake yet?
where do they live ?
though i wouldn’t wish to be better for my own sake ,  for your sake i wish i were twenty times more than myself—a thousand times more beautiful and ten thousand times richer—just so you might value me more ,  so my good qualities ,  beauty ,  possessions ,  and friends would be more than you could calculate .
say welcome to all of our friends for me ,  sir ,  for in my heart they are all welcome .
give it to me .
you find the means, and i'll find such a man.
wasn’t it yesterday we spoke together?
once more ,  leave ,  good friends .
two thousand souls and twenty thousand dollars will not settle the question of who owns this worthless land.
how do i stand ,  then ,  that have a father killed ,  a mother stained ,  aggravation of my reason and my blood ,  and let all sleep while ,  to my shame ,  i see the imminent death of twenty thousand men that ,  for a whim and trick of fame ,  go to their graves like going to bed ,  fight for a plot on which the numbers don’t have room to fight for the cause ,  which is not tomb enough and big enough to hide the slain ?
true ,  worthy banquo !
you’re right .
or else love is blind ,  and its best time is the night .
yes, to smell pork; to eat in the temple that your prophet, the nazarene, conjured the devil into.
being unprepared ,  our wishes became the servants to what we lacked ,  which has worked out very well .
if it does pass ,  the church will lose more than half of what it possesses ,  because the bill would strip us of enough real estate left to the church by wealthy ,  pious men in their wills to support fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights ,  six thousand two hundred squires ,  and a hundred well - supplied almshouses for the relief of lepers ,  old - age pensioners ,  the poor ,  and those too weak or sick to work .
that’s a stupid thing to say .
you are a saucy boy .
my lord ,  i think i saw him last night .
god bless you ,  mr .
i was with the heroes hercules and cadmus once ,  when their spartan hunting dogs cornered a bear .
excellent .
his son was but a ward two years ago .
the gown was made just as my master was directed .
so how’s my nephew hamlet doing ?
is your name shylock ?
freedom, high-day, freedom!
i didn’t hear it .
this, casca; this, cinna, and this, metellus cimber.
that’s the weakness i’ll use to get revenge on him .
he really plays well .
alas, good cassio!
good night ,  madam .
both ,  both ,  my girl .
brutus ,  a word with you .
if every dollar in six thousand dollars were in six parts, and every part a dollar, i would not take them; i want my promise to pay.
but now it’s stopped .
therefore ,  great king ,  we surrender our town and lives to your kind mercy .
i’ll say good - bye now .
i had rather give his carcass to my hounds .
both ?
this clearing will be the stage ,  and this hawthorn bush will be our dressing room .
what name ,  beautiful lady ?
pregnancy is a blessing, but not as your daughter may get pregnant.
capulet ,  you villain !
if you love me ,  let me know by smiling at me .
he is positively stuffed with honorable virtues .
i didn’t think you would follow me .
god have mercy ,  grumio !
i haven’t eaten today .
you know me too well .
tell me ,  that i may rip the hateful mansion apart .
your fortitude has left you alone .
his beard was as white as snow, all white was his hair.
i knew that would be your answer .
you were never with me for anything when you were not there for the goose .
and do you now put on your best attire?
your son will have my consent to marry my daughter .
to divert your attention ,  why do you go about trying to figure me out ,  as if you’re to pick a fight ?
while i threaten ,  he lives; words give breath to the heat of deeds that are too cold .
in god’s name ,  i beg you not to wish for one more man .
and mine a hundred and forty.
what do you want ?
virginity makes her look sick and green .
well ,  eventually god will send him some more hair ,  if he thanks him .
and yet i’ll still have plenty .
fabian ,  bring him here .
we hope you feel better and find some peace .
where are my father and my mother ,  nurse ?
i want my bond .
i'll give you a wind for your sail .
don’t be crass . —you all look confused .
i can’t tell you anything else .
it’s getting late .
you refused me both .
oh ,  i know .
sit down, clitus.
the exchange of your love's faithful vow for mine .
oh god ,  do i have to remember that ?
besides the things that we have heard and seen, there is a man inside recounting the most horrid sights seen by the guards.
quiet there !
if you sink ,  you’re dragging love down .
if i ever dreamt about such a matter ,  hate me .
but come ,  young waverer ,  come go with me .
she’s a lot like you .
i don’t see thisbe.
we’ll meet again at nine in the morning .
listen tranio !
sir, there is special commission come from venice to put cassio in othello's place.
you know from my clothing who i am .
you don’t see our hearts; they’re full of pity; pity the general injury of rome — as fire drives out fire ,  so pity drives out pity — has done this deed on caesar .
but a lot of old people act like they’re already dead—sluggish ,  slow ,  fat ,  and colorless ,  like lead .
for himself to ruin ,  ”  he says .
it’s a strange snake .
now ,  please ,  i beg you ,  don’t work so hard .
then i’ll know exactly what she is ,  just as i know what i am .
no stony tower ,  no brass walls ,  no airless dungeon ,  no iron chains can contain a strong mind .
i’ll stay ,  my lord .
high-day, freedom!
what is it ,  ophelia ,  that he has said to you ?
he’d really be your proxy if he married you .
but if you steal my reputation ,  you’re robbing me of something that doesn’t make you richer ,  but makes me much poorer .
i’ll rest here .
o god!
for shame ,  bring juliet out here .
wait good nurse .
the head is not more native to the heart ,  the hand more instrumental to the mouth ,  than is the throne of denmark to your father .
we’ll hurry .
how now !
i have done the state some service ,  and they know it .
and would i have ever done that to you ?
that’s right ,  uncle ,  talk to your heart ,  like the  good morning to you both .
whatever pertains to myself i will deal with last .
if you say it isn’t true ,  i’ll give you a province and make you rich .
the inherited estate!
in a minute !
not that i don’t love you.
if your master wants a queen to beg from him ,  you should tell him that a queen will beg for no less than a kingdom .
if she is beautiful and wise ,  beauty and wit ,  the one's for use ,  the other uses it .
you attract me to you ,  you cruel magnet !
o, the heavens!
at least two hours past that.
live ,  live !
and that’s everything ,  leonato . —claudio ,  benedick—my dear friend leonato has invited you all to stay here at messina .
to wage war .
come, you are too moral.
i mean ,  my lord ,  the fight of your person in trial .
i’ll help you through this business .
since your woes are only a portion of mine ,  i have every reason to surpass your lamentations and drown out your cries with my own .
the news is true ,  my lord .
the lord mayor is knocking .
and now ,  octavius ,  listen to great things .
oh ,  but these are our friends .
speak now .
they won’t pinch me ,  frighten me ,  push me in the mud ,  or mislead me unless he tells them to .
no ,  lysander .
i will calculate your love from this time forward .
but audrey ,  there’s a boy in the forest who claims you’re his girl .
be friendly, but by no means vulgar.
when it is paid according to the terms.
i’ll get free of you .
i was sure that you hadn’t given it to me .
i'll have the embroidery taken out, and give it iago.
look on the tragic load on this bed; this is your work .
at mine own house, good lady.
all right ,  have it your way .
how will you live ?
and harm is getting close !
well put ,  maecenas .
what if your husband strays elsewhere ?
why ,   “ as by lot ,  god knows ,  ”  and then ,  you know ,  ” it came to pass ,  as most like it was .  ”  the first line of the holy song will show you more ,  for look where my means of whiling away the time comes .
wait ,  countrymen .
i’ve been alive for twenty - eight years ,  and i’ve never met a man who knew what was good for him .
no, my heart is turned to stone; i hit it, and it hurts my hand.
look ,  sir ,  this is a portrait of me as i am at this particular moment .
he was like that time of year halfway between the extremes of hot and cold: he was neither sad nor happy .
my dollars and my daughter !
edmund ,  you deserve me to be your woman .
mr .  bassanio ! — gratiano !
and all because i use my own money to make a profit .
i don’t know and he won’t tell me .
tybalt ,  here killed ,  who was slain by romeo’s hand .
i’m sorry about your daughter’s death ,  but i swear our accusations were true ,  and backed up with proof .
but here comes antony .
oh sisters three, come, come to me, with hands as pale as milk; lay them in gore, since you have shore with shears his thread of silk.
yes ,  he does .
for shame ,  you generals !
i believe drink did all of this to you last night .
i’ve got no hope that he survived .
the labor we delight in cures pain .
thank you .
oh strange!
start walking ,  and i’ll follow you with a new ,  fired up heart ,  to do i don’t know what ,  but it’s enough that brutus leads me on .
that's horrible and shows very bad manners in the fool that uses it .
i can’t see ahead of me .
and shall i join forces hell?
but i will tell you that lately the duke has been displeased with his niece ,  and for no other reason than that people praise her virtues and pity her for her father’s sake .
outside, my lord, guarded, to know what you want.
yes ,  i am .
here's someone comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
heaven rest them now!
o, the pipes.
by this sword ,  i will .
goodbye .
in the most high and palm tree-like state of rome, a little before the mightiest julius caesar was killed, the graves had no bodies, and the dead in sheets squeaked and gibbered in the roman streets, and stars with trains of fire and red morning dews, disasters in the sun.
he hates our sacred nation; and he abuses me ,  even there where merchants congregate most of the time ,  insulting me ,  my bargains ,  and my well - won success ,  which he calls interest .
reputation is an idle and very false burden ,  often got without merit and lost without being deserved .
you are like one of these fellows that ,  when he enters the bar ,  throws his sword upon the table ,  and says  ” god ,  i don’t want to use you !  ”  and by the time he’s drunk the second cup draws the sword on the table ,  when ,  indeed ,  there is no need .
i have an aunt who is a widow ,  who’s very rich and doesn’t have any children .
or ,  if you will marry ,  make it a fool ,  by mary ,  for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them .
oh ,  i only wish i knew the name of that husband you said he predicted will have a cheating wife !
but ,  lepidus ,  go to caesar's house; go get the will here ,  and we shall determine how to cut off some appointments in legacies .
just tell his faults so quaintly that they may seem to be the stains of freedom ,  the flash and outbreak of a fiery mind ,  a savageness in wild blood ,  an attack that everyone goes through .
all three of them are crazy with despair .
mistress ,  i swear on my life that it’s true .
maybe ,  but you’re wrinkled all the same .
because who is this man they follow ?
sailors ,  sir .
my clerk has some good comforts for you, too.
behold ,  i have a weapon; a better one never sustained itself on a soldier's thigh .
goodbye ,  goodbye .
i held the sword and he ran on it .
let him come ,  and now tell caesar what it is that he wants .
hide, i hear him coming.
if it’s no more than this ,  then portia is brutus' whore ,  not his wife .
he weeps for what is done.
the table is full on both sides .
i’ll humor him when he learns how to behave .
o, where is romeo?
i didn’t love you.
do you see that ?
maybe until after theseus’s wedding day .
excellent ,  really ,  of the chameleon's dish .
the advancement of your children ,  noble lady .
i swear to god it’s true ,  sir .
i am bound to you forever .
did he receive you well ?
i’m no less noble than you are ,  edmund .
for instance ,  our husbands
be patient ,  your highness .
come, go, good juliet.
go tell the hunters to blow their horns and wake them up .
why do you look so pale ?
alas ,  sweet lady ,  what does this song mean ?
besides ,  they act as outward consciences and preachers to us all ,  a visible reminder that we should prepare ourselves for death .
my horse is a creature that i teach to fight, to wind, to stop, to run directly on, his bodily motions ruled by my whims.
did it stay long ?
i will tell you now ,  as you know ,  young fortinbras ,  not thinking very much of us ,  or thinking that our late dear brother's death made our country disorganized and no longer powerful ,  conspiring with this dream of his advantage ,  has not failed to pester us with messages ,  asking us to the surrender of those lands lost by his father ,  within all the rules of law ,  to our most valiant brother .
our arms ,  which can be strong and cruel ,  and our hearts ,  filled with brotherly love ,  embrace you with kind love ,  good thoughts ,  and reverence .
we will ,  my noble lord .
let me see it .
no, my dearest love, i wouldn’t for the world.
getting right to the point ,  i live near the capitol .
no; i will resist such treatment until my enemy has more power to fight .
yes, i did; but she was only being polite.
the glowworm’s light is beginning to fade ,  so morning is near .
the one the moor gave to desdemona ,  which you asked me to steal so many times .
you coward ,  did you run away from me ?
don’t disturb his soul .
uncle ,  i must come out .
and prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
i don’t believe that you deal justly with me .
i’ll marry the earl of warwick’s youngest daughter ,  lady anne .
there has never been a widow who suffered such loss as me .
o fool!
i’ll tell twenty lies like that ,  so men will think i graduated from school at least a year ago .
now, sir, judge it for yourself whether or i am better suited in any beautiful terms to love the moor.
the world's a huge thing; it is a great price to pay for a small sin.
i won’t be hit ,  my lord .
so you finally find me worthy of your attentions .
whose grave is this ,  sir ?
but ,  go on .
the brain may come up with laws to control society ,  but one hot temper jumps over a cold law; madness the youth is just such a jumper ,  skipping over the nets of good advice the cripple .
this storm has no pity for either wise men or fools .
who has wronged him ?
you seem a little depressed about this .
give us answers .
this is not an act of man ,  nor any sound like those on earth:—i hear it now above me .
she is ,  indeed ,  perfection .
farewell ,  my lord .
i can’t remember how i cried then ,  but i’ll cry all over again .
this is the place .
the same indeed; a very valiant fellow .
you notorious whore !
in faith, you'll be sick tomorrow because you stayed up all night, supervising.
please ,  leave it here .
younger girls than she are made happy mothers.
well ,  for your good looks ,  sir ,  thank god and don’t boast about it .
read it ,  mark antony .
call philostrate .
this much i can say about him: he is well - born ,  has proven his bravery in battle ,  and has established his good character .
eyes, look your last!
be content, gentle cousin, leave him alone.
well then ,  goodbye .
why the nobles were imprisoned ,  and on what charges ,  i don’t know ,  my gracious lord .
as absolute a traitor as any in the whole entire world—or even france or england !
don’t be afraid; she shall not harm you ,  helena .
i’m not a traitor .
you are a saucy boy.
i think i hear antony call me .
what would that be ?
these foolish drops drown my manly spirit somewhat; goodbye!
he died on viola’s thirteenth birthday .
don’t mess with me .
it’s good to grow .
no ,  good my lord ,  don’t be angry .
no, nothing but ourselves.
give me a candle!
o, heaven forgive us!
i have, when you’ve heard what i can say and you know it now.
alas ,  poor country ,  almost afraid to know itself !
one of my friends traveled with him ,  who ,  almost dead for breath ,  had scarcely more breath to deliver his message .
he will stay until you come.
it was me ,  no one else .
and now you throw flowers in the way if the man that comes in triumph over pompey's death?
iago ,  who started it  ?
as it dissolves ,  so shall my life .
nerissa, cheer the stranger; say hello to her.
o calm, dishonorable, vile submission!
passion ,  i see ,  is catching; for my eyes ,  seeing those beads of sorrow stand in yours ,  began to tear .
dear lady ,  welcome home .
no ,  you were one of gneius pompey’s leftovers—not to mention your other ,  more depraved affairs ,  which have somehow managed to avoid becoming the subject of vulgar gossip .
my lord, there is a messenger waiting outside with letters from the doctor, just now arrived from padua.
oh ,  this day has turned into a disaster !
habit has made it a property of easiness in him .
you can heat your iron up in here .
claudio !
she speaks ,  but she says nothing .
did heaven watch the slaughter and not send down any help ?
rub him around the temples .
then the jew must show you mercy .
even the goddess of patience couldn’t look at this and be patient—it’s too horrifying !
hurry up .
no ,  no ,  until it comes true we’ll pretend it was just a dream we had .
a horse ,  a horse ,  i’d give my kingdom for a horse !
no ,  don’t be ashamed ,  cleopatra .
it would be hard ,  almost impossible .
why do you lead these men in the streets ?
who put out the light ?
i’m afraid to think how i’ll be criticized for letting my natural affection for my father give way to my loyalty to you .
to insult and judge are different things ,  and of opposite natures .
o ,  i have bought the mansion of a love ,  but i have not moved in ,  and ,  though i am sold ,  i have not yet been enjoyed .
yes ,  my lord .
i pay your poverty ,  and not your will .
o, you are well tuned now!
put on your nightgown .
he knows what ?
have courage ,  man .
what, you egg!
seyton !
i wouldn’t allow any commerce .
yes ,  if you want to help yourself .
stop !
don’t reply .
down with the capulets !
please ,  remember i have worked faithfully for you ,  told you no lies ,  made no mistakes ,  served without a grudge or grumblings .
what, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
but aren’t some well that we must make sick ?
even from that .
sad or happy ?
indeed ,  to speak feelingly of him ,  he is the card or calendar of gentry ,  because you shall find in him the continent of what a gentleman is .
tybalt is dead ,  and romeo has been banished .  ”
no.
yes ,  and my father .
tybalt, here killed, who was slain by romeo’s hand.
i won’t forget .
it’s another hero !
as i was sleeping under this yew tree here, i dreamed that my master and another fought, and that my master killed him.
and i.
o worthy stephano !
oh ,  don’t touch me .
i’ll write how ,  under his flag and with his well - paid troops ,  we have beaten the formerly unvanquished parthia .
are you sure of that?
my mistress ,  dearest; and i am humble forever .
i did that and more ,  which brings me to the point of this second meeting .
go ,  get you to johann ,  bring me a mug of whiskey .
caesar ,  you’re not going to be killed by a traitor—unless you kill yourself .  .
i’ll scalp you .
damn it !
his crime did justice’s job by taking tybalt’s life .
you kick me out ,  he kicks me back .
see how he stands between two clergymen !
dear sir toby ,  don’t do anything rash tonight .
it's the wind.
there the grown serpent lies; the worm that has fled has a nature that in time will breed venom, but he has no fangs now.
i’m awkward in my speech and i’m not a smooth talker .
oh ,  in the duke of gloucester’s wallet .
no .
we’ll be your witnesses .
call me whatever instrument you want to ,  although you can try to cover my holes me ,  you can’t play me .
get out ,  servant; rude fellow ,  go away !
it’s about you .
there's a french salutation to your french slop .
it’s even stranger when an angel is so angry .
there we go !
i’m telling the truth .
i am their aunt ,  and i love them like a mother .
if i had been any god of power ,  i would have sunk the sea on the earth ,  before it would have swallowed the good ship and the souls that were her cargo .
he was my brother’s son !
i’m starting to lose my mind .
a substitute shines as brightly as a king until a king is back ,  and then the substitute’s condition drains away ,  as an inland brook does into the river of waters .
shame on it!
they vanished strangely .
i wish i had never seen it !
did it stay long?
romeo, leave, be gone!
romeo, there dead, was husband to that juliet; and she, there dead, was romeo's faithful wife.
let us hear him .
i have none.
we didn’t expect mark antony to be here .
what can we do to find out if it’s true ?
even her worst faults are charming ,  and holy priests bless her even when she acts the slut .
i go over hills and valleys ,  through bushes and thorns ,  over parks and fenced - in spaces ,  through water and fire .
i’ve told you .
no, not an oath.
what handkerchief ?
good morning ,  cousin .
i’ll meet you there in an hour .
yes ,  you certainly could pass for men ,  in the same way that hounds ,  and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  curs ,  shoughs ,  water - rugs ,  and demi - wolves are all the names of dogs .
the very place puts desperate ideas, without any motive, into every brain that looks so many fathoms into the sea and hears it roar beneath.
is claudio your enemy ?
i bring you news of the prince's sentence.
you look pale and dazed ,  and put on fear and make yourself wonder ,  to see the strange behavior of the heavens .
i would believe it against a fortuneteller .
these our actors ,  as i told you before ,  were all spirits and have melted into air ,  into thin air: and ,  like the invisible fabric of this vision ,  the cloud - capped towers ,  the gorgeous palaces ,  the solemn temples ,  the great world itself ,  yes ,  all who inherit it ,  shall dissolve and leave not even a clue behind ,  as this pageant of no substance faded .
wicked deeds will rise to be seen even if they are buried very deep in the earth .
what do you say?
you have quarreled with a man for coughing in the street, because he woke up your dog that was asleep in the sun.
you may think ,  perhaps ,  because she is something lower than myself ,  that i can match her movements .
have patience and endure .
flute, you must take the role of thisbe.
but there’s more work to be done .
am i begged, then,to speak and strike?
servant monster ”  ?
we will rise early tomorrow, and be on our way.
dolabella .
holy franciscan friar !
tell me where you live .
o ,  ho ,  monster !
you’ll find us both at crosby place .
the dog returns to its own vomit ,  and the newly washed sow to its mud puddle .  ”  you’d take anything for a mistress .
are you planning to go out ?
but i’m as noble as my opponent .
here comes the lady .
for i’m sure that although you may know what temperance is ,  you’ve never experienced it firsthand .
poor desdemona !
i would have my own brother arrested if he treated me so terribly .
i have to do it ,  i have to do it .
let the dying fire shine a glimmering light throughout the house .
if you’re not immortal ,  look around you .
go release them ,  ariel .
give my regards to your lady ,  and tell her to hurry everybody in the house to bed .
tie him up ,  i tell you .
up .
o desdemona!
if he bleeds, i'll smear the faces of the grooms with it, because it must seem that they are guilty.
no ,  in its tongue .
then one of you will warp and pull away—and there goes your marriage .
the gods know how dearly caesar loved him !
awake!
honestly ,  then i’m afraid you are dammed both by father and mother; when i keep away from the sea monster ,  your father ,  i fall into an equal evil ,  your mother; well ,  you are gone both ways .
so often as that shall be ,  so often shall the group of us be called the men that gave their country liberty .
if she sends any letters to richmond ,  you will be accountable to me for it .
call it a match !
who keeps her company?
then it is most likely that the crown will fall upon macbeth .
yes ,  yes ,  this is the rope ladder .
pay a surgeon to stand by and bind his wounds ,  shylock ,  so he doesn’t bleed to death .
and now you throw flowers in the way if the man that comes in triumph over pompey's death ?
you have to be patient with me .
i don’t know ,  madam .
i wish you all the best .
i wish we were safely on board our ship already .
but look ,  even if my dishes are poor ,  eat them with my best wishes .
the king isn’t the one sending you to the tower ,  clarence .
if he offers to choose, and chooses the right chest, you would be refusing to perform your father's will, if you refused to accept him.
what a man ! —especially compared to my husband .
if you ever had a mother ,  come in quickly to sir john .
i’m not in a joking mood .
in one voyage ,  claribel found her husband at tunis ,  and ferdinand ,  her brother ,  found a wife where he himself was lost; prospero found his dukedom in a poor island; and all of us found ourselves ,  when no man was in his right minds .
where ,  where ?
what's this got to do with my lysander?
but yet ,  madam— i don’t like the sound of  “ but yet .  ”  it reverses all the good that came before it .
that’s worse .
what ,  you’re not a whore ?
no other grave on earth shall hold a pair this famous .
never believe it .
no ,  after you .
go ,  lad ,  and find out what the trumpet’s sounding for .
agree to swear .
what judgment shall i dread ,  if i have done no wrong ?
here’s some more news coming in .
what if i didn’t go any farther, and chose right here?
what should a man do but be merry ?
where is this impatient and very unfortunate man ?
let them judge us however they please .
i will, my hermia.
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
oh ,  you mighty gods !
yes, but, lady, that policy may either last so long, or feed on such nice and light diet, or take itself so out of circumstance, that, with my absence and my place filled, my general will forget my love and service.
and from my soul too or else curse them both.
it’s true i’m not married ,  caesar .
i won’t bet on whether or not any of this is real .
it was a handkerchief ,  an antique token my father gave my mother .
men may sleep ,  and when they do they may have their throats with them ,  and some people say knives have blades .
here come brabantio and the brave moor .
hold on !
well ,  i’m not sorry to hear that ,  because they have always been my enemies .
lead us away .
is that true?
i mean ,  is the jay more precious than the lark because his feather is more beautiful ?
that has made him crazy.
i thank you ,  master .
they are loves i bear to you.
soldiers, sir.
then all alone at the prearranged hour of her waking up, i came to take her from her relative's tomb, intending to keep her close at my cell until i could easily send for romeo.
a knight on a quest ?
for my part, my lord, i didn’t intend to see you here; but, meeting with salanio by the way, he begged me, past all saying no, to come along with him.
my father loved sir rowland as much as he loved his own soul ,  and the rest of the world shared my father’s opinion .
where are my slippers ?
my lord, i wish that thursday were tomorrow.
no ,  that's not your way .
miranda—o my father !
they’re all welcome .
bernardo.
you only have say to me what i should do that you think i can do, and i am committed to it; so, ask me.
cassio, walk around here.
spread the word .
i swear to god ,  madam ,  you’ve wronged me ,  and i’ll tell the whole world .
what tranio did ,  he did at my command .
my good lord, how has your honor been for this many a day?
meaning, to good manners?
go ahead, if it will not stand.
teach me to forget to think !
what noise?
i have half a mind to hit you before you speak again .
bring them right in .
welcome, good friends.
why ,  what's the matter ?
in faith, he's very sorry; and yet his crime, in our common reason, except that, they say, the wars must make examples out of their best, is not almost a fault to incur a private punishment.
most horrible!
no.
this is news indeed !
oh ,  what an excellent young man !
does leonato have a son ,  my lord ?
what will you give us ?
a likely piece of work that you should find it in your bedroom and not know who left it there !
the letters he spoke of may help me .
now i see it is true, because banquo, with his hair matted with blood smiles upon me, and points at them for his.
come ,  desdemona ,  once more happily brought to cyprus .
why do you repeat it, woman?
follow her closely ,  watch her well ,  i beg you .
we don’t want it at our festivities .
what will you do for her?
just keep your love under control ,  and don’t let yourself become a target of his lust .
enough ,  captain .
who is it that cried?
i know that we shall have him as a friend .
not me .
listen ,  in books they say that true love always faces obstacles .
who's there ?
these blazes, daughter, giving more light than heat, dead in both, even in their promises, dying as they are being made, must not be taken for real fire.
stephano is my name ,  and i bring word that my mistress will be here at belmont before the break of day; she wanders about by holy crosses ,  where she kneels and prays for happy marriage hours .
what would the king of naples do if he heard you say that ?
i swear ,  i think my wife’s faithful ,  and i think she’s not .
i'll find romeo to comfort you.
turn back ,  dull earth ,  and find out where your center is .
he claimed to know that already too ,  and said that’s the reason he’s come to speak with you .
my father can’t think straight—a hundred knights !
he was some such squire that turned your wit inside out, and made you to suspect me of sleeping with the moor.
i’ll walk up and down and sing a song ,  so they’ll know i’m not afraid .
or, if you will marry, make it a fool, by mary, for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them.
i’ll change that name for you .
queen of egypt ,  greetings !
why, light is a function of discovering things, love, and i should be hidden.
yes ,  my good lord .
give me your hand .
do i ask you to follow me ?
well ,  sir ,  i’ll take you to lear and have you stay with him a while .
oh ,  i wish i could know what will happen today before it happens !
into god’s hands .
sir ,  i’m half - blind .
you’ll be pricked all over ,  and it’ll sting like bees .
take some new infection to your eye ,  and the rank poison of the old love will die .
i’ll answer for you .
you’re turning into strangers; has it come to that?
what, i, my lord?
what, have you dined at home?
i invite you all aboard my ship .
it’s time to leave .
messala ,  today is my birthday—i was born on this very day .
a drum ,  a drum !
we'll bet them who has the first boy for a thousand dollars .
well ,  when i cut the egg in half and eat the whites ,  the yolk will be in two parts like two golden crowns .
i’m greedy!
tell what you are .
men act imprudently sometimes ,  then realize their mistakes when they have time to think about them .
all is confirmed, my lord, which was reported.
then we won’t agree to his demands .
i think that’s strange .
i tell you truly ,  in true english: i love you ,  kate .
we must not.
your magic spell has such an effect on them that if you saw them now ,  you’d feel sorry for them .
why did you bring these daggers from the room?
i pledged my love to you before you asked me to .
o ,  help ,  ho !
do you get what i’m saying ,  reynaldo ?
don’t worry .
how, in stripping it bare, you invest more in it!
this is the time of night when witches come out ,  when graveyards yawn open and the stench of hell seeps out .
with rosaline, my ghostly father?
our intention was to be gone from athens, and to get to a place where we might be together without the punishment of the athenian law.
i am not sorry either .
stay invisible .
how did you know it was she ?
so get ready to cut off the flesh .
honestly ,  you’re speaking the truth—ever since the fools were  with his mouth full of news .
my fan ,  peter .
let me unbutton this .
but stop ,  i say .
the reports came in as thick as hail and every one of them sang your praises in your great defense of the kingdom, and poured such praises down before the king.
the clock struck nine when i sent the nurse; she promised to return in half an hour.
well, what is it?
i have .
yes ,  my lord .
i’ll have his heart, if he defaults; because, if he were out of business in venice, i can make whatever deals i want to.
but jealous souls will not be answered that way; they are not ever jealous for a reason ,  but jealous because they are jealous .
good shining ,  moon ! —really ,  the moon shines very well .
this is to make a donkey of me, to frighten me, if they can.
welcome then .
if you hadn’t shown up on cue ,  my lord ,  lord hastings was going to take your part—i mean ,  he was going to speak for you—in the crowning of the king .
what’s the problem ,  that they cry out so loud ?
that same cowardly giant-like roast beef has devoured many people from your family.
who was it that came by ?
listen!
and you would have me do that ?
it’s a wonder you didn’t lose your life and your mind all at once . —he’s waking up .
put a candle in my study ,  lucius .
what’s the matter ?
that’s how we’ll do it ,  then .
and that drop, distilled by magic tricks, shall raise such unnatural spirits, that, by the strength of their deception, shall add to his confusion.
how does it feel to be benedick the married man ?
how can a tailor make a person ?
i’ve been poisoned .
i'll have some proof .
if he bleeds ,  i'll smear the faces of the grooms with it ,  because it must seem that they are guilty .
yes ,  for the state; not for antonio .
where is the horse that retraces his boring steps again with the same fire that he walked them in the first place?
i wish the fool were dead and married to her grave !
a woman who doesn’t know how to make her own indiscretions look like her husband’s fault is hardly a woman .
i could do more to help antony ,  but to do so would insult him .
god bless you for doing this .
roderigo killed?
some wine ,  ho !
i feel sorry for you .
a maiden never bold, of a spirit so still and quiet that she blushed at her own movements; and she, in spite of nature, of years, of country, reputation, everything, to fall in love with what she feared to look at!
what’s the matter ?
tell me, othello.
too cruel any where.
let it fly out .
i have a rumor of fire ,  that i would gladly spread ,  before this news puts the fire out .
hello .
or have we eaten some plant root that makes us hallucinate ?
let it stay in your inventory until it bankrupts you .
it was .
what do i care what curious eye lists my deformities?
no, by the church, i haven’t.
that villain cousin would have killed my husband.
god has blessed you with a good name .
i'll go after that same villain, because he is a damned slave.
yes, my own fortune in my misery.
it’s like a cockleshell or a walnut shell ,  a joke ,  a prank ,  a doll’s cap .
go on ,  master ,  and i will follow you—with truth and loyalty to my last breath .
uncle ,  this man is a montague—our enemy .
no, if you’ll speak, i’ll rant as well as you.
romeo killed tybalt .
well ,  i’ll commit the sin of double - dealing ,  and deal you a second coin .
she cheated on me ,  and she was a whore .
o ,  damn her !
she deserves to have rocks and stones thrown on her body .
i will cut off their heads.
by mary ,  young man ,  her mother is the lady of the house .
what do these noisy storms care about the name of king ?
fly further off, my lord, fly further off; mark antony is in your tents, my lord.
what is it ,  laertes ?
but those who understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads .
both begin with an r .  ah ,  joker !
o, well done!
you have lost no reputation at all, unless you believe yourself to be such a loser.
and nothing in your letters was written about her ?
men should be what they seem; or those that are not, i wish wouldn’t seem so!
why, you—loss on loss!
let’s think about what has happened; and ,  later ,  when we’ve had a chance to think ,  let’s about these things openly each to other .
good to see you ,  corporal nym .
my vision is dull .
my lord ,  my lord !
to repay her for her troubles ,  death gives her undying fame .
your joke is a very bitter apple .
i go ,  i go; look how i go , — swifter than an arrow from the barbarian’s bow .
i humbly thank you ,  sir .
o ,  will you leave me so unsatisfied ?
an alone thing ,  as i am now ,  that is amazed to hear you speak of naples .
this morning brings a gloomy peace with it.
come hear, my dear hamlet, sit by me.
in that case ,  i don’t much care for you either .
god almighty ,  there must be some essential goodness even in evil ,  if men would only look for it .
fear comes over me.
i assure you it is ,  madam .
and so she turns men inside out and never acknowledges the integrity and merit that a man has .
though science can explain them away ,  disasters still come after eclipses .
what do the priests say ?
his name is balthazar .
oh ,  isis ,  that’s impossible .
what’s the news ?
i can hit quickly, if i’m motivated.
we'll wait upon you.
denmark's a prison.
this doesn’t look like a wedding .
no .
quiet !
come on!.
madam ,  some actors happened to cross our paths on the way here .
stay ,  gentle helena; hear my reason; my love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  fair helena !
okay ,  but tonight doesn’t count .
i’ve been hurt .
what bastard doesn’t?
don’t let that lawyer ever come near my house !
thank you, your majesty.
the devil himself could not pronounce a title more hateful to my ear.
ah, servant, this unlooked-for sport comes well.
let me tell you ,  cassius ,  you yourself are much condemned for being greedy ,  to sell and advertise your offices to unworthy people for gold .
cousin ,  you didn’t used to be so thickheaded .
shame ,  eternal shame ,  and nothing but shame !
let’s not ,  brutus .
please ,  let me look on the promise to pay .
this morning, they have fled away and are gone; and in their places, ravens, crows, and kites fly over our heads and look down on us as if we were sickly prey.
now listen and understand .
fairy king, see and listen; i do hear the morning lark.
oh ,  there’s the problem .
don’t tempt me to suicide again .
do you really think that if it came down to my word against yours ,  anyone would believe you ?
what’s the matter here ,  gentlemen ? —honest iago ,  you look upset .
all offices are open, and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five until the clock rings eleven.
i’ll give the queen a hearing and grant her requests if she either throws her dishonored friend out of egypt or kills him .
she’s too much for me to handle .
please ,  i beg you ,  don’t scold me .
i bought an oil of a mountebank, so mortal that, only dip a knife in it, where it draws blood, no super-potion so rare, collected from all antidotes under the moon that have always worked, can save the thing from death and this is only with a scratch.
what do you say to a piece of beef with mustard ?
while we’re walking ,  you can tell me how i ended up sleeping on the ground with these humans last night .
it’s time that we brought our armies into the field .
he's gone, but his wife's killed.
fa ,  sol ,  la ,  mi .
please ,  father ,  since you’re weak ,  act like it .
i promise you your relatives have made my eyes water before now.
are you going to say good things about the man who killed your cousin ?
i’ll go join him there ,  going down deeper than any anchor ever sank ,  and lie with him dead in the mud .
it’s clear ,  every man must take responsibility for the manner of his own death .
i’ll debate this with you later ,  and then i’ll teach you to listen more carefully .
why, you’re sober enough now.
what a pretty picture ,  three fools all together .
the duke is temperamental .
good madam ,  restrain yourself .
well ,  we were born to die .
in heaven .
don’t miss our feast .
she’s weak and will die unless you comfort her .
when she cries ,  all the little flowers cry too .
let’s go to this great feast .
listen to the situation and the event; then tell me if this might be a brother .
pardon me ?
let each man give me his bloody hand .
o ,  heaven forgive us !
i repeat ,  spread the rumor that anne ,  my wife ,  is sick and likely to die .
i would do a lot to reconcile them ,  for the love i bear to cassio .
here is the cap your worship ordered .
that means it’s high time for me to go .
that's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs .
that i will do .
if knowing what to do were as easy as knowing what was good to do ,  chapels would have been churches ,  and poor men's cottages would have been princes' palaces .
no ,  not to live !
i think he must have turned into an animal ,  because i can’t find him anywhere looking like a man .
my mother .
he’s a good soldier too ,  lady .
commend me to your lady .
for if the sun breeds maggots in a dead dog, being a god-kissing rotten flesh— have you a daughter?
my brave spirit !
i called my love false love; but what said he then ?
never, until caesar's thirty-three wounds are well avenged, or until another caesar has added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
if you think i come here as a lion, shame on me.
o ,  give me permission .
makes no difference.
you may do so; but let it be quickly so that supper is ready by five of the clock at the latest.
i’ll make you an example for the others to learn from .
in that case ,  if i can wear a mask ,  let me play thisbe too !
mercy only murders us ,  pardoning those that kill .
go home to bed ,  francisco .
look with what courteous action it waves you to a more private ground .
come on, trinculo, let us sing.
swear.
it’s me ,  a friend ,  and one that knows you well .
no, my good lord, but, as you did command, i did reject his letters and denied his access to me.
i wish he were fatter !
come now ,  your promise .
he was the one who denounced his father .
what do you have to say about the french lord ,  monsieur le bon ?
now get on with your story .
but ,  lepidus ,  go to caesar’s house .
what ?
lucius ! —varro !
lord, how my head aches!
the thing is definitely going to be sold .
what ,  is your sword out among these stupid servants ?
and you'll keep it secret ?
don’t play any nasty tricks on me .
and ,  i'll guarantee that she is full of game .
hold off your compliments for awhile and pay attention ,  until i may deliver ,  with the witness of these gentlemen ,  something marvelous to you .
she was filthy !
it is the cause .
hound or spaniel ,  bitch or dog ,  whether your tail is short or curly— tom will make you cry and wail .
caesar ,  i have news about menecrates and menas ,  notorious pirates who prowl the sea in a variety of ships .
forever and forever ,  farewell ,  brutus !
no ,  i am a welshman .
by heaven, i’ll make a ghost of him that holds me back!
you shall be my lieutenant ,  monster ,  or my main officer .
no, sir.
but what praise could you bestow on a deserving woman indeed, one that, in the authority of her merit, rightly wore the witnessing of very malice itself?
why do you look like that ?
what are these things, my lord antonio?
i know where he is .
roderigo !
how far is it to the town of forres?
mustardseed .
how else is it the man in the moon?
truly ,  sir ,  you don’t need to be afraid .
hello ,  good cassio !
who’s calling me ?
become a better
but don’t think i’m doing this because i’m greedy .
sir ,  be a man .
no, let the sweet tongue lick ridiculous vain glory, and bend the obvious hinges of the knee where poverty may follow flattery.
i understand a fury in your words ,  but not the words .
do you think it is this ?
what's your gracious pleasure?
truly, sir, in respect of a fine worker, i’m only, as you would say a cobbler.
i may as well be hanged as to tell how it happened .
hamlet, you are killed, no medicine in the world can save you.
going to find a fellow brother, one of our order, to help me visit the sick here in this city, and finding him, the searchers of the town, suspecting that we both were in a house where the infectious plague was, sealed up the doors, and wouldn’t let us leave; so that my speed to mantua was delayed by that.
what ,  is he dead ?
malcolm, duncan’s son, from whom macbeth withholds his birthright, lives in the english court and is received by the most pious king edward with such grace that the evil twist of fate takes nothing from his high respect.
i didn’t see you; welcome ,  gentle signior; we missed your advice and your help tonight .
it is for the head.
i’m surprised i didn’t bite back .
unfaithful ,  my lord ?
but here's a parchment with the seal of caesar,— i found it in his bedroom,—it’s his will.
be calm !
just like the rabbit ,  who lives where she is born .
this is the fruit of whoring .
whip me ,  you devils ,  so i don’t have to look at this heavenly sight !
she told my mother that as long as she kept it with her ,  my father would love and desire her .
that’s the end of the announcement .
we'll burn the house of brutus.
it’s a good thing you’re not a fish.
though all things disgustingly filthy would look like grace, yet grace must still look that way.
my lord, i’m leaving.
i’ll bandage up these wounds and swear i got them in the french wars .
i drink in the air before me ,  and return before your pulse beats twice .
your hand is  well ,  i hope so .
here ,  peter quince .
madam ,  your mother craves a word with you .
i didn’t order it .
come to think of it ,  i am feeling sleepy .
so will you confess, i am sure, that you love me.
he ,  fast of foot ,  outran me; and i returned because that i heard the clink and fall of swords ,  and cassio swearing loudly; which ,  until tonight ,  i never saw him do before .
is your englishman so expert in his drinking?
shall i speak ill of him that is my husband ?
he has to pay the price for his foolish actions .
my barons and relatives ,  from this point forward you are earls ,  the first that scotland ever named to such an honor .
we’re very sorry ,  sir ,  that you may not live to wear us out with your commands .
then meet me right away at the notary’s .
for now, because of this fearful night, there’s no noise or walking in the streets, and the weather reflects the work we have at hand, most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
taurus !
wake duncan with your knocking .
we have consented to all reasonable terms .
he’s a knight .
i’m not possessed !
isn’t it enough, isn’t it enough, young man, that i never did, no, nor never can deserve a sweet look from demetrius' eye, but you must joke about what i’m lacking?
i did ,  my lord .
and like similar forecasters of fierce events, as the advance team before the fates, and prologue to the omen coming on, heaven and earth have together demonstrated to our country and countrymen.
what’s the news ,  brave soldier ?
that's one of them .
get a little sleep .
i am not “i,” if there be such an “i,” or those eyes shut that make you answer “i.” if he is slain, say “i;” or if not, say “no.” brief sounds determine my wealth or sorrows.
right.
our leader is being led .
o ,  rejoice beyond a common joy ,  and set it down with gold on lasting pillars .
she awakes .
everyone prepare to take this beautiful corpse to her grave .
but let it rain; i’ll survive .
in his heart ?
don’t you know that i have offered these bones of mine for ransom ?
i’m wide awake .
i don’t know what may happen; i don’t like it.
here comes the lady; let her verify it .
ok .  go ahead .
the strings, my lord, are false.
your highness ,  i want nothing more than what you’ve already offered .
now let the wind blow ,  waves swell ,  and ships sink !
on my honor ,  sir ,  i heard a humming ,  and it was a strange one too ,  which woke me up .
sure ,  or anything else you show him .
stay close by when we wake him up ,  ma'am .
are you laughing at what i say ,  as if i were a fool ?
you cram these words into my ears against the stomach of my sense .
that’s the one .
orlando ,  my lord ,  the youngest son of sir rowland de boys .
ok ,  let’s sit down ,  and listen to bernardo speak of this .
oh ,  god help me !
have you heard any suggestion to the contrary?
go ,  then ,  mother ,  to your daughter .
we will try it .
why ,  may one ask ?
please do ,  madam .
it was.
that’s me .
if there are any, speak, because i offended him.
but i spoke with someone who saw cawdor die ,  and he said that cawdor openly confessed his treasons ,  begged your highness’s forgiveness ,  and repented deeply .
who is it you mean?
yield up, o love, your crown and hearted throne to tyrannous hate!
why, there you’ve said it.
i didn’t say free ,  madam .
makes no difference .
peace there !
where the bee sucks, there suck i: in a flower’s bell i lie; there i sleep when owls cry.
what’s going on ?
i couldn’t bear to obey all of your daughters' harsh orders .
you are forward, my lord, you are forward.
this chest threatens; men that gamble everything do it in hope of a better advantage: a golden mind doesn’t stoop to shows of scum; then i won’t give or gamble anything for lead .
o treacherous villains !
in order to flatter caesar ,  would you flirt with the servant who laces up his pants ?
yes .
come ,  let’s continue on toward your father’s house .
why ?
we will mingle with these people ,  and play the humble host .
a right fair mark, fair coz, is the first hit.
what kind of hands are these?
come on ,  we have to follow the leaders of the dance .
what should we say her, where our fate, hidden in a very small carpenter’s hole, may rush up and seize us?
i stretch it out for that word  “ broad ,  ”  which added to the goose ,  proves you far and wide a broad goose .
so i will turn her virtue into black tar ,  and out of her own goodness make the net that shall tangle them all up .
upon his brow ,  shame is ashamed to sit; for it’s a throne where honor may be crowned the only king of the universal earth .
i can only say that you are due more than all of us can ever pay .
or shall we just go on without any apology ?
if grief doesn’t kill me ,  i’ll find a quicker way to kill myself—even though i think grief will do the job just as well .
what should we say ,  my lord ?
pretty!
grumio ,  get me my horse .
this ,  casca; this ,  cinna ,  and this ,  metellus cimber .
i will kiss your lips .
i think the sun where he was born took all such humors out of him .
no ,  good my lord ,  this courtesy is not the right answer .
look.
yes ,  if messala will recommend me to you .
what will all this lead to?
well ,  that’s what the wife brings to the marriage .
mass, i cannot tell.
an eagle ,  madam ,  is not as green ,  as quick ,  and hasn’t so beautiful an eye as paris has .
what's hecuba to him, or he to hecuba, that he should weep for her?
it is .
welcome back to denmark ,  my lord .
i was told that you were violent ,  proud ,  and sullen .
how do you and your master get along?
for some reason he’s in prison now on some legal technicality ,  on malvolio’s orders .
sure ,  and twenty others just like you .
i am the slave and worker in your delight; but you shall bear the burden soon at night .
oh ,  chest ,  obey me !
yeah ,  right ,  go get him .
and i wouldn’t ask for any dowry except for her to play another trick like this one .
what must be will be .
flower with this purple dye, hit by cupid's arrow, sink into the apple of his eye!
i won’t any hooked instruments .
room, oh!
the three of you have killed a sweet ,  innocent woman .
why ,  well .
madam ,  with all my heart .
look to the lady .
and when she was here recently she flirted with edmund and gave him significant glances .
barnardo’s taken my place .
let’s do this legally.
your wife octavia ,  with her self - effacing eyes and self - righteous assumptions ,  won’t get any praise from patronizing me .
i don’t understand that at all.
where?
everything i am and everything i have now belongs to you .
i’ve lost so much weight worrying about my losses have that i’ll hardly have a pound of flesh to spare for my bloody creditor tomorrow . —well ,  jailer ,  let’s go . —i hope to god that bassanio comes to see me pay his debt .
why are you frowning like that ?
what ,  frightened by false fire !
peter !
come on ,  you’re being ridiculous !
any obstacle or barrier to claudio’s happiness will be like medicine to me .
you can trust me .
there is no terror, cassius, in your threats, because i’m armed so strongly in honesty, that they pass by me as the idle wind which i don’t respect.
so be it .
just looking at you makes me sick .
a fig!
go with me to the tomb .
let’s go see the king.
well ,  this is what happens when men let themselves be ruled by women .
nurse !
his affections don’t go that way, and what he said, though it was a little unorganized, wasn’t like craziness.
i have salty and sorry tears that bother me; lend me your handkerchief.
wasn’t that letter from jessica ?
he’s not sleeping to fatten up his lazy body ,  but praying ,  to nourish his attentive soul .
i beg your pardon .
if that’s all ,  gentlemen ,  i see no problem .
and it’s a wonder that he’s late, because lovers always keep ahead of the clock.
why does it matter that i’m not as lucky or lovable as you are and that the love i feel is unrequited ?
a tomb must cover your sweet eyes.
i thought he was feeling the way i was ,  that many people are at their busiest when they’re alone ,  kept on walking and thinking ,  not worrying about him ,  and i gladly walked away from him who gladly fled from me .
i’ll beat him until the welts look like basket - weave !
shall we get to work ?
what was it ?
the treacherous weapon is right in your hand ,  sharp and dipped in poison .
yes ,  gentle cousin ,  if it were light enough for you .
let’s seek out some shady place where we can sit down alone and cry our hearts out .
now, where it is beastly forgetfulness, or some defeated principle of thinking too much on the event, a thought which, cut in quarters, has but one part wisdom and always three parts coward, i don’t know why i am still live to say “this thing's to do, “ since i have cause, and will, and strength, and means to do it.
as they pass by, grab casca by the sleeve; and he’ll, in his sour way, tell you what notable events have happened today.
be careful ,  signior baptista ,  lest you be made the dupe in this business .
it was his bidding; therefore ,  good emilia ,  give me my nightgown ,  and goodbye .
i’d give up my life and take my son’s place in the mud on the ocean floor if i could see them alive in naples . —when did you lose your daughter ?
oh dear!
i’ve found it out .
peter quince— what is it ,  jolly bottom ?
your games ?
are you down in the dumps ?
there are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered.
let those who would mar this fair land’s peace with treason die before they can enjoy its wealth .
everyone else will have to stay single .
my hounds are bred out of the spartan kind ,  so jawed ,  so sandy - colored ,  and their heads are hung with ears that sweep along the ground; crook - kneed and dew - covered like thessaly bulls; slow in pursuit ,  but matched in their barks like bells ,  each one under the other .
alas, poor yorick!
think about it .
oh ,  what a sad day !
if he resists, subdue him at his peril.
where is my husband ?
hello ,  tubal .
with all my heart ,  and it makes me happy to hear that he is so inclined .
hang her !
yes, yes, the ropes.
when he is gone ,  i would like to speak with you urgently .
he says, for brutus' sake, he finds himself grateful to us all.
i would ,  my boy .
come talk to me about this .
rob them of the ability to count before the numbers against them overwhelm their courage .
love doesn’t look with the eyes ,  but with the mind; and that’s why cupid is painted with a blindfold .
he’s my prisoner .
i’ll be no king of england if i’m not also king of france .
the swelling disease drown this fool!
o, for shame!
i'll do it ,  but it doesn’t like me .
light a candle in my study ,  lucius .
motley is the only thing to wear .
what, is the fellow mad?
it’s impossible .
wait for mine ,  sweet soul .
on thursday, it’ll be then.
she’s cold .
oh !
i know the boy will be a convincing gentlewoman ,  taking up her exact walk and talk and gentle gestures .
can’t a plain man live and do no harm to anyone without being taken advantage of by a bunch of slick ,  sneaky lowlifes ?
the sun will never be seen by such royal eyes again .
you push me far, and so i’ll give in.
oh, lucilius!
no, come, let's go together.
we will ,  we will .
i’m going to let him live .
he swore that he’d never get married ,  but now ,  despite his earlier protestations ,  he loves ungrudgingly .
you know where i live .
o jephthah ,  judge of israel ,  what a treasure you had !
honestly, then i’m afraid you are dammed both by father and mother; when i keep away from the sea monster, your father, i fall into an equal evil, your mother; well, you are gone both ways.
but i know you’d never force me to tell you things i don’t want to ,  so i should be polite and tell you what i can .
i don’t understand why they’re all here together .
is this the king we offered to ransom ?
softly, by and by.
go to sleep ,  and listen to us laughing .
they grow like savages—like soldiers who meditate on nothing but blood—surrounded by swearing and stern looks ,  ragged clothing and everything unnatural .
what are you talking about ?
the earth has bubbles ,  as boiling water has ,  and these spirits are like that .
then why did you travel so quietly ?
affection!
knock ,  knock ,  knock !
the only thing different about me is my clothes .
but there is no end ,  absolutely none ,  to my sexual desires .
but how has she received his love ?
pardon me ,  caesar; because my dear ,  dear love to your advancement bids me tell you this; and reason is responsible to my love .
good morning ,  father !
hunting what ,  curio ?
what music should we play then ?
if that’s what you mean ,  i’ll melt this gold and pour it down your throat that speaks these hateful words .
but brutus says he was ambitious ,  and brutus is an honorable man .
all these are bearable ,  when weighed against other graces .
in the meantime, i wrote to romeo that he should come home, this bad night, to help to take her from her borrowed grave, at the time that the potion would wear off.
hold your desperate hand.
i’m the king himself .
welcome ,  my good friends !
let the air they ride on be infected and let all those that trust them be damned!
no one else would .
what ,  if i had said i had seen him do you wrong ?
i will grant you he is bloody, luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful, sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin that has a name.
we came here to fight against you .
let only the common people hear this testament,— which, pardon me, i don’t mean to read,— and they would go and kiss dead caesar's wounds, and dip their napkins in his sacred blood; yes, beg a hair of him for memory, and, dying, mention that hair in their wills, leaving it as a rich legacy to their children.
do you love me, master?
indeed they say that the senators mean to establish caesar as a king tomorrow , and that he will be king everywhere ,  in every place ,  except here in italy .
here comes your father .
but brother ,  i have some strange news for you .
o, these men, these men!
so it is, if you knew our reasons.
what does she want ?
coward, why don’t you come?
why, anything but to the answer.
yes ,  they’re spirits that i’ve called out of their prisons to perform my whims .
and i had to be away !
lorenzo will be happy with what we’ve done .
give it to me !
don’t look so sour .
what's this got to do with my lysander ?
forever ,  and forever ,  goodbye ,  cassius !
be bold ,  and get ready .
i drink to the general joy of the whole table, and to our dear friend banquo, whom we miss.
yes ,  noble lord .
please ,  pay him immediately .
thank god and my horoscope !
with that ,  i hope god is with him !
i have been sent on ahead to light a fire ,  and they are coming after to warm themselves .
listen ,  they roar .
the law has another hold on you .
has it come to this ?
i saw him once .
o cursed, cursed slave!
what endeavor ,  popillius ?
we have god and a good cause on our side .
must i speak now?
i see no blood, no wound.
did you come from padua ,  from bellario ?
this is one lucianus, nephew to the king.
and mine say two hundred .
the woman falls; surely ,  he has killed his wife .
my honored lord ,  you know right well you did ,  and with them ,  words composed of so sweet an air as made the things more rich .
wonderful !
so cheer up .
the king is not responsible for it .
by mary, i wouldn’t do such a thing for a gold ring, or for measures of soft cotton, or for gowns, petticoats, or caps, or any little show; but, for the whole world -why, who wouldn’t unfaithful to her husband to make him a king?
obey, and go with me, because you must die.
cover the sky with a low - hanging fog ,  as dark as hell ,  and get these overeager rivals so completely lost in the woods that they can’t run into each other .
well ,  i think it’s good to be serious and keep quiet .
words without thoughts never go to heaven.
signior, it is the moor.
you see how naïve and foolish i’ve been .
you annoying idiot ,  what epidamnum ship is waiting for me ?
do you understand me?
i really think it was him .
from now on i will ,  cousin ,  and i’ll think of all kinds of games for us .
that knife should be in its sheath on that montague’s back ,  but instead it’s mis - sheathed in my daughter’s breast .
give me my long sword, hey!
poor man !
i’ll play the part wearing either a straw - colored beard ,  or a sandy beard ,  or a red beard ,  or one of those bright yellow beards that’s the color of a french coin .
do you have in there the pretty snake of the nile that kills without pain ?
but i am very sorry ,  good horatio ,  that i forgot myself to laertes ,  because ,  by the image of my cause ,  i can see myself in him .
you are all most welcome here; please make yourselves at home .
go find out the news .
you can take your chances after dinner .
may your love never change until your sweet life ends!
a man with a wife like that might ask ,   “ hey ,  wandering wit ,  where are you off to ?  ”  nah ,  better save the questions for when you find her in your neighbor’s bed .
don’t be cruel ,  demetrius .
i’m glad .
i only say what she is .
i’ll be here again, even with a thought.
i’m cinna the poet; i’m cinna the poet.
and your lies caused this murder .
take me to the garden .
why ?
fast work and a little luck are all i need . —brother ,  could i have a word with you ?
be patient ,  for the world is broad and wide .
it’s cheap and nasty !
i order you ,  get far away from me and do not haunt me thus .
i knew you must be aware of the margin before you had finished.
let me argue with you about your situation.
yes, from the table of my memory i’ll wipe away all unimportant records, all kinds of books, all pictures, all pressures past, that my youth and observations wrote there, and your commandment all by itself shall live within the book and volume of my brain, unmixed with other low thoughts.
i dreamt a dream tonight.
if you say my wife is beautiful ,  eats well ,  loves good company ,  speaks freely ,  sings ,  plays music ,  and dances well ,  you’re not making me jealous .
here you steal the name you don’t own and have put yourself on this island as a spy ,  to win it from me ,  the lord of it .
my neglecting worldly responsibilities like that ,  dedicating everything to seclusion and the bettering of my mind with that which ,  only by being so secluded ,  was worth more than all popular opinion ,  awoke in my false brother an evil nature; and my trust ,  like a good parent ,  made him lie ,  a lie as great as my trust was ,  which had no limit indeed ,  a confidence without boundaries .
but what o' that ?
i’m tired of it ,  and you say you’re tired of it too .
therefore ,  he that cannot lick his fingers won’t come back with me .
there's rue for you, and here's some for me.
these vows are hermia's .
get away from me ,  witch !  ”  the fat woman cried .
all i have to do is remove it .
ready.
how have i behaved, that he might put the smallest opinion on my least misconduct?
i’m about to fly away .
she’ll die for it . —eros ,  ho !
o the pernicious wretch !
now, you know how i love you has been proven to you, and as my love is cannot be measured, so is my fear.
let them start with us.
how are you ,  my gracious sir ?
only to satisfy my thought ,  no further harm .
dreams are a sign of ambition ,  since ambition is nothing more than the shadow of a dream .
yes ,  it’s well built ,  and the ship’s pilot is very expert and experienced .
let me comply with it in these clothes ,  for fear that my welcome to the players ,  which i tell you must look good ,  should more appear like entertainment than your plays .
who's there ?
how hurting a lash that speech gives my conscience !
be assured you may .
the level meadow ,  where the freckled cowslip ,  burnet ,  and green clover once grew ,  has become useless: unmowed ,  it grows to seed ,  so that nothing springs up but weeds ,  rough thistles ,  barren plants ,  and burs .
i won’t sleep until i see her ,  hortensio .
here i am ,  your slave—a poor ,  sick ,  weak ,  hated old man .
if our father continues to use his authority as usual ,  then his recent abdication of the kingdom will just hurt us .
why do you cry?
think, my lord!
nobody i care about more than myself .
i shall faint .
i thought he was feeling the way i was, that many people are at their busiest when they’re alone, kept on walking and thinking, not worrying about him, and i gladly walked away from him who gladly fled from me.
should i perjure my soul by disobeying it ?
ah sir ,  ah sir .
true; except the means to live it .
then take this man into your service ,  octavius ,  for he did the final service to my master .
my lord, i can’t.
let me go with you to belmont .
you all know this cloak.
where’s publius ?
lord, we know what we are, but don’t know what we may be.
besides ,  i don’t like you .
be patient .
i’m cinna the poet; i’m cinna the poet .
the life ?
i’m glad he wasn’t here for this fight .
i beg you ,  pardon me; i cannot speak .
we shall ,  my lord ,  perform what you command us .
what do you think about that?
i’d rather give myself up to the hatred of a violent brother who refuses to recognize that we are brothers .
but ,  look ,  amazement sits on your mother’s face .
look ,  he’s moving .
you shall find me easy enough for that, sir, if you will give me the opportunity.
turn up on your right hand at the next turning ,  but ,  at the next turning of all ,  on your left; damn it ,  at the very next turning ,  turn of no hand ,  but turn down indirectly to the jew's house .
have you questioned him at all ?
no, gentle romeo, we must have you dance.
what’s this all about ?
i’ll teach you to drink hard by the time you leave .
good cousin ,  good meg ,  good ursula ,  come help me get dressed .
did you hear a noise ?
we were about to have our noses snapped off by two old men with no teeth .
i am sorry ,  but heaven has decided it to be this way ,  to punish me with this act ,  and punish this act with me ,  that i must be their whip and whip - er .
no ,  it wasn’t .
who are these men ?
did you invite him ,  sir ?
look: benedick is so pale—are you sick ,  or angry ?
we’re close enough now .
how is my wife?
did you see octavia ?
what do you want from me ?
what ,  ho !
but hear me, countrymen; still hear me speak.
she awakes.
by my head, here come the capulets.
you are the singer.
i wish some god could help me choose !
my god ,  it’s nauseating !
the sun is up and we’re wasting the day !
i don’t know, sir.
who’s coming with her ?
be patient ,  i have to rest .
i was his daughter when you banished him .
it’s all the same .
brutus will lead ,  and we’ll follow him with the boldest and best hearts of rome .
i could translate between you and your love ,  if i could see the toys flirting .
o lamentable day!
that is a certain truth .
greetings ,  dearest caesar !
when we shall meet at elegance, this look of yours will hurl my soul from heaven, and devil will scratch at it.
curse you for telling me that ,  because it has intimidated my better part of man !
i am poisoned .
i'll fall down flat; maybe he won’t notice me .
hold ,  for your lives !
this ,  by his voice ,  should be a montague .
i don’t, until you use them on me.
ever since cordelia left for france ,  sir ,  the fool has been depressed .
if it pleases your majesty ,  let his neck pay the price ,  if there is any martial law in the world .
away !
meanwhile ,  i’ll think of some horrible way to phrase the challenge .
the best plays are still only illusions ,  and the worst are just as good ,  if you just use your imagination to fill them in .
are you dreaming or awake ?
some villain has told lies about me .
but i yield to die.
will you walk, sir?
he's fat, and out of breath.
if i thought ,  sir ,  that i was well awake ,  i'd try to tell you .
i swear on my soul it was a lie .
and she’s fierce ,  even though she’s little .
i know him .
carthage ?
young fortinbras ,  returning in triumph from poland ,  is firing his guns to greet the english ambassadors .
though you can swim like a duck, you are made like a goose.
but with a rear-ward following tybalt's death, ”romeo is banished.” to speak that word is father, mother, tybalt, romeo, juliet, all slain, all dead.
do you remember a venetian scholar and soldier who accompanied the marquess of montferrat here once when your father was still alive ?
i’ll put up my shield and battle you .
excellent well.
speak confidently .
how badly this candle burns !
tell him so yourself ,  and see how he will take it from you .
if i had the goddess juno’s power ,  i would make the strong - winged messenger ,  mercury ,  pick you up and seat you beside jove .
it was just two days ago that i tripped you and beat you up in front of the king .
speak behind the door .
the most important thing for you to think about is how beautiful his daughter is .
i forced to send the ring after him; i was overcome with shame and courtesy; my honor would not let ingratitude so much offend it .
she’ll be damned for it .
you are jealous now that this is from some mistress, some gift.
it is better with you out here than he inside the hall.
oh god ,  horatio ,  what a damaged reputation i’m leaving behind me ,  as no one knows the truth .
i don’t think he has been marked for drowning: his complexion is perfect for being hanged.
i would ,  if i had a mirror .
no ,  by heaven .
i beg you not to push my speech to grosser issues or to reach beyond mere suspicion .
isn’t that him ?
call to him ,  mercutio .
if we only find the tyrant's forces tonight ,  let us be beaten if we cannot fight .
forgive me my truth, because, in the fatness of these wealthy times virtue itself must beg pardon of vice, yes, beg and court for permission to do him good.
what ,  are you hurt ?
then learn this from me: if you have something ,  you have it .
you have not half that power to do me harm as i have to be hurt .
tell him so yourself ,  and see how he takes the news .
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
i’ll come soon .
and with such shortened rites ?
o courteous tybalt !
but here's my husband; and as much duty as my mother showed to you ,  preferring you before her father ,  so much i dispute that i may profess due to the moor ,  my lord .
amen ,  amen .
hang on ,  sir !
please don’t ruin any more of my poems by reading them so badly .
what are you  nothing .
don’t dislike me for my complexion, the dark clothing of the polished sun, to whom i am a neighbor, and born near it.
i’m always happy to hear about brave men .
you don’t have to worry about any of these lords ,  my lady .
please ,  my king ,  be quiet .
what bastard doesn’t ?
begin, murderer, argh!
but to say that tybalt’s dead and then say ,   “ romeo has been banished .  ”  to say that is like saying that my father ,  my mother ,  tybalt ,  romeo ,  and juliet have all been killed ,  they’re all dead .
monday!
what, frightened by false fire!
where is our entertainment director ?
i would rather wrong the dead ,  and wrong myself and you ,  than wrong such honorable men .
but if you have to swear ,  swear by your wonderful self ,  which is the god i worship like an idol ,  and then i’ll believe you .
he’s too overwhelmed with shame .
why, uncle, it’s a shame.
up to the breach ,  you dogs !
sometimes i appeared in many places at once .
no ,  madam ,  no .
my generous welcomes ,  childishly cruel in being so perfect ,  seek to hide themselves in tears .
there must be some political news from venice ,  or some dangerous plot here in cyprus has ruined his good mood .
her name is portia .
why ,  his cuckold’s horns ,  of course—the kind you men are always blaming on your wives .
are all the cups and glasses in their places ,  the tablecloths laid out—everything in order ?
how is hamlet ?
i don’t see thisbe .
your statue spouting blood in many pipes, in which so many smiling romans bathed, signifies that, from you, great rome shall suck reviving blood, and that great men shall ask for tinctures, stains, relics, and recognition.
tomorrow, if you want to speak with me, i’ll come to your house; or, if you like, come to my house, and i’ll wait for you.
help!
my back on the other side ,  o ,  my back ,  my back !
come ,  sisters ,  let’s cheer him up ,  and show him the best of our delights .
knock ,  knock ,  knock .
yes ,  ma'am .
my brother’s servants used to be my equals .
how does my generous sister ?
oh ,  i’ve heard him talk about that brother ,  and he described him as the most inhumane man alive .
where are you all off to ?
i’m sure nobody would have any reason to fight with me .
i don’t have evil in me sometimes to do me service.
i’ve botched the job ,  friends .
wait ,  let me hire him too . —here’s my fool’s cap ,  a token of my gratitude .
good - bye .
listen ,  guildenstern ,  and you too ,  rosencrantz—listen as close as you can !
not me .
no ,  i don’t know .
remember march ,  remember the fifteenth of march ?
but ,  be careful that you don’t stay after the guards are in place ,  because then ,  you cannot get to mantua ,  where you shall live until we can find a time to publicize your marriage ,  reconcile your friends ,  beg pardon of the prince ,  and call you back with twenty hundred thousand times more joy than you left here in grief .
you lie: you can’t.
why are you acting so brazen toward my lady ?
if you’re stephano ,  touch me and speak to me .
no ,  not a whit .
o ,  it’s the same in my mistress' case ,  just in her case !
yes ,  but i didn’t see anything wrong ,  and i heard every syllable they said .
how foolish your fears seem now, calpurnia!
our country weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each day a fresh cut is added to her wounds .
i beg you ,  remember the good work i’ve done for you ,  and how i’ve never lied to you ,  never made mistakes ,  and never grumbled in my work .
but ,  listen to me ,  good shylock .
we must die ,  messala .
you understand ?
i wish i were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
the other one didn’t .
but i still believe that his madness was caused by unrequited love . —hello ,  ophelia .
why do the roses in your cheeks fade so fast?
tell me again, where did you leave these varlets?
some of your french crowns have no hair at all, and then you will play it with no beard!
tell us .
dear master ,  i can’t go any farther .
how am i false ?
i have lived long enough .
then every soldier must kill his prisoners .
come on ,  you’re fooling yourself .
ask me any commonsense question .
the prince has done neither; therefore ,  in my opinion ,  he isn’t really protected by sanctuary .
for pity’s sake ,  for pity’s sake !
he ,  he ,  it is he .
do i look as pale as everyone else does ,  lord dorset ?
climb up to her bedroom and comfort her .
fierce civil war will paralyze all of italy .
o ,  wonderful !
is there any voice more worthy than mine to speak more sweetly into great caesar's ear to ask for a repeal of my banished brother’s sentence?
i’ll bring you to him .
oh ,  they continually urged the king to do it .
i guess now she’s going to be my sister - in - law and not my wife .
don’t be disturbed by my weakness .
trust me, sweet, out of this silence, i still picked out a welcome; and in the modesty of fearful duty, i can understand as much as if it were from the rattling tongue of saucy and audacious eloquence.
come, gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends, and let them know both what we mean to do and what's done at an unfortunate time.
come here, servant.
i’m sweating and trembling with fear .
good hamlet, take off your black looks, and let your eye look on the king like a friend.
no ,  taking you away from your new marriage would be like showing a child a new coat and then not letting him wear it .
was it so late, friend, before you went to bed, that you overslept?
antonio ,  i am married to a wife who is as dear to me as life itself; but life itself ,  my wife ,  and all the world ,  are not worth more to me than your life; i would lose everything ,  yes ,  sacrifice them all here to this devil ,  to save you .
there must be a strange explanation for this—if it’s true .
oliver ,  your brother—no ,  not your brother; and yet he’s the son—but no ,  i won’t call him the son—of that great man i was about to call his father ,  has heard about how well you did in the wrestling match ,  and tonight he’s planning on burning your house down ,  with you in it .
your drugs are quick.
i’ll see her like this .
please ,  we will stand here and wait for your instructions .
we'll hear a play tomorrow .
where’s lady portia ?
why does the drum come here ?
please give me that; i'll carry it to the pile .
what will we say is our excuse for being here ?
honor you .
when i meet this gentleman ,  i’ll tell him what you’ve said .
is there anything inaccurate in that ?
here comes one .
and these she interprets for warnings and portents and imminent evil ,  and on her knee ,  has begged me to stay home today .
the great emperor caesar ,  dead and turned to clay ,  might plug up a hole to keep the wind away .
oh my !
you stopped me; i would have populated this island with calibans .
do you think i meant sexual matters ?
it’s almost morning .
stay ,  then .
now i’ve paid you back ,  parthia ,  and gotten revenge for marcus crassus’ death .
let me have it now .
my dear gloucester !
then i will kiss your lips ,  kate .
why, here in denmark.
look at my face .
almost as bad, good mother, as killing a king and marrying his brother.
sir ,  enter the castle .
when courage consumes reason ,  it destroys its only weapon .
o treacherous villains!
but please tell me ,  sir ,  is your marriage  let him do his worst .
well then, now.
back when i was a schoolboy ,  if i lost an arrow i would try to find it by shooting another arrow in the same direction ,  watching the second arrow more carefully than i had the first .
down with the capulets !
isn’t my name hero ?
it’s locked away in my memory ,  and you’ve got the key .
then, my queen, in sad silence, we dance after night's darkness.
i am very proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offenses at my command than i have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give them shape, or time to commit them in.
so i’ve begged him to come along with us to watch what happens this night, that, if this apparition comes again, he may believe what we have seen and speak to it.
and you shall be satisfied.
make her sterile and dry up her womb so that no baby will ever come out of her body and honor her .
hail to you ,  baron of glamis !
who knocks so hard?
you may, indeed, say so, because it was that hand that gave away my heart.
come down ,  brother .
i mean, the matter that you are reading, my lord.
tell him to greet the king of england with our sharp defiance .
the laws of venice state that if a foreign resident directly or indirectly attempts to kill any citizen ,  the person he tried to kill will receive one half of the foreigner’s goods .
look who’s here !
hurry up, make haste, for it grows very late.
even if you were as handsome as  i beg your highness’ pardon .
don’t provoke me any further or i’ll forget to restrain myself .
what's this ?
be assured, good cassio, i will do all i can in your behalf.
but how would you praise a truly good woman ,  someone who had no reason to worry about what anyone said about her ?
quiet, who’s coming here?
what do you see ?
lieutenant ,  i think you know i’m your friend .
now all the blessings of a glad father are all around you !
indeed i should have asked you that before .
an adulterer's a monster and a beast.
you’d have to be as lazy as a weed on the shores of  i knew it !
but in your daughter’s womb i will bury them .
come on .
oh ,  listen to me ,  night— who is this ?
yes, and a bold one, that has the courage to look on a sight which might shock the devil.
what’s this all about ?
o cousin ,  cousin !
my lord ,  i don’t think i cried out .
the armies were like two exhausted swimmers clinging to each other and struggling in the water ,  unable to move .
where is my lady ?
he’s recruited bocchus ,  the king of libya; archelaus of cappadocia; philadelphos ,  king of paphlagonia; the thracian king ,  adallas; king manchus of arabia; the king of pont; herod ,  of judea; mithridates ,  king of comagen; polemon and amyntas ,  the kings of mede and lycaonia ,  and many more .
i’ll leave you till night.
look here, sir, first ask what danes are in paris, and how, and who, what means, and where they live, what company, at what expense, and finding, by this talking around and drift of questions, that they who do know my son, come nearer to you than your particular questions will touch it.
come ,  come ,  the reason .
save me and hover over me with your wings ,  you heavenly guards !
yes.
here comes your father .
don’t believe in this .
please ,  master ,  tell me .
murder !
o, from this time forth, my thoughts be bloody, or be worth nothing!
please ,  father ,  i beg you .
these fogs which, falling in the land, have made every rough river so high that they have flooded the continents where they flow.
be happy about it .
i shall have glory by this losing day, more than octavius and mark antony shall get by this evil conquest.
then by all means never let her walk in public .
who’s ruining my rituals of true love ?
you may to me, and it is most proper you should.
my liege .
if i live to see you get married someday ,  all my wishes will come true .
no .
where do you live ?
light!
yes ,  a dozen; and as many to profit as would store the world they played for .
and when i’m king ,  remember to ask me for the earldom of hereford and all the possessions that go with it ,  which my brother the king used to own .
and how is she doing?
before the bat has flown his hidden flight ,  before black hecate's summons are heard ,  before the dung beetle ,  with his drowsy hums ,  rings the bell to end the night ,  there shall be done a deed of dreadful note .
never quiet !
not dead ?
i’ve been here too long .
why do you say that ?
do this immediately ,  and don’t stop searching and interrogating until you’ve brought home these foolish runaways .
i swear i will ,  and if i ever break my promise let me turn into a monster .
they will tell me more ,  because i’m determined to know the worst about what’s going to happen .
i think i hear them .
get down and swear it .
cousins ,  i hope the days are near at hand that our homes will be safe .
couldn’t this make you know that the hate i have for you made me leave you like that ?
and hello to you ,  fair sister .
he doesn’t miss a thing .
i see you’re all determined to gang up on me for a few laughs .
goodbye ,  sir .
i hope we have calmly overcome those problems ,  sir .
your majesty shall mock at me .
an honest tale succeeds best when it is told simply .
yes ,  so i fear; and my fears are more than they were .
fool!
a beast that lacks the gift of reason ,  would have mourned longer— married my uncle ,  my father's brother ,  but no more like my father than i am like hercules .
then i have offended no one .
what, in your own part, can you say to this?
then i rebel against you ,  stars !
it was worse than being a captive in chains .
now ,  iras ,  what do you think ?
his spirits listen to me ,  and yet i have to curse .
get us out of here .
problems with no solutions should not be thought about .
some to ligarius’s .
nah ,  i don’t care what their
listen to my excuse .
can i know your answer ?
one word more shall make me scold you, if not hate you.
it’s nine o'clock .
no ,  good man ,  be patient .
what, paris too?
i will ,  my hermia .
what do you think of marching to philippi now?
come ,  lady; you must die in order to live .
are there no stones in heaven to serve as thunder ?
god save your majesty .
the poor rude world doesn’t have her equal .
dear mr .  fabian ,  do me another favor first .
i have a daughter ,  have while she is mine ,  who ,  in her duty and obedience ,  listen ,  has given me this .
what, are you hurt, lieutenant?
it is  “ music with her silver sound ,  ”  because musicians have no gold to use to make sounds .
why does the world report that kate is lame ?
i’ll be there shortly .
will you be here when i return ?
tranio ,  let’s go .
what woven country-folk do we have swaggering here, so near the cradle of the fairy queen?
a diamond gone ,  cost me two thousand dollars in frankfort !
caesar wrote for him to come to rome.
then gave i her, according to my craft with herbs, a sleeping potion; which took effect as i intended, for it made her seem dead.
but truly ,  if i were as
i don’t trust you .
don’t shed any blood; or cut less nor more, exactly just a pound of flesh: if you take more, or less, than a just pound, whether it is only so much that makes it light or heavy in the substance, or the division of the twentieth part of one poor scruple; no, if the scale turns only by a hair, you die, and all your goods are seized.
the hour has almost come when i have to return to the horrible flames of purgatory .
oh ,  you stupid moor !
no ,  really ,  i don’t .
no, his mouth is stopped; honest iago has taken orders for it.
hang him immediately .
though we have lost a generous king ,  we are about to enjoy the benefits of a new king .
no ,  it’d be a sin to think such a low thought .
dear general ,  i never gave you any reason to hate me .
so ,  possessing neither a voice nor a heart for flattery ,  i can’t awaken the spirit of love in her so as to make him appear in his true likeness .
men tend to be at their most irresponsible when they’re away from home .
your superiors .
would you do such a deed for all the world ?
peace, you’d better stop.
and cassius too .
blessings on you !
is there more news ?
you ,  mistress ,  all this trouble is because of you .
i gave my love a ring ,  and made him swear never to part with it ,  and here he stands ,  i would dare to swear for him that he would not leave it nor pluck it from his finger for all the wealth in the world .
innocent sweethearts ,  you have no idea who’s responsible for your father’s death .
therefore ,  in case he does ,  we must hold him back .
your father’s sons would make excellent husbands ,  if only a girl could catch one for herself .
get going ,  and ,  at the sunken place by the river acheron ,  meet me in the morning .
sir ,  i obey the mandate ,  and will return to venice .
where is polonius?
very well ,  my lord .
amen, with all my heart!
brutus ,  don’t scold me ,  i won’t put up with it .
seyton!
greet him ,  elves ,  and do him courtesies .
where is he ?
take our good meaning ,  for our judgment sits five times more in that sense ,  than once in our five wits .
pick up the body.
really ?
neither to you nor any one, having no witness to confirm my speech.
and then, sir, ask if he does this, does he--what was i about to say?
i don’t want anything but that .
no ,  my good lord .
i’ll go to lunch .
no ,  from the moon ,  i’m telling you .
which ,  among the many women ,  my daughter ,  being one ,  may stand out ,  though in my eyes ,  none can match her .
conrade ,  i say !
you, you, yes, you!
come, high or low; yourself and duties skillfully show!
i will not leave him now until cassio is called to him .
my cause is fixed in my heart; yours has no less reason .
i’m ashamed that i yielded to them .
how is my juliet ?
until then ,  we’ve said enough .
come, we'll go in here, wait for the mourners, and stay for dinner.
i can’t ,  ma'am .
i’ve lost my name and title to a traitor .
curse me ,  if i would do such a wrong thing for the whole world .
longer ,  longer .
god in heaven bless her !
go to bed ,  dear .
because ,  you know ,  pyramus and thisbe meet by moonlight .
the love that follows us sometimes is our trouble ,  which are still grateful for as love .
what’s the news ?
to bait fish with: if it feeds nothing else ,  it will feed my revenge .
a man ,  sir .
are you there ?
why can’t that be the skull of a lawyer ?
she replied by saying that it would be better for him to be her guest instead .
that’s it !
the name suits your fierceness .
then everything must really be finished .
a man ,  like you .
letters ,  my lord ,  from hamlet .
i know what you’d do .
what support did we have besides our father ?
ate at home ,  but the jeweler says he didn’t .
i admit that in front of you ,  my lady ,  she keeps a bit quiet .
yes ,  i have great cause to be thankful .
why, then, i think cassio's an honest man.
confined together in the same fashion as you told me; just as you left them: all prisoners, sir, in the grove of trees which weatherproofs your dwelling; they can’t budge until you release them.
don’t move ,  dog .
of honorable status are you both; and it’s a pity that you lived at odds so long.
except that he has not yet agreed to address you in this form and with this title—in french ,   and even this i’m willing to grant if you request it .
i take my leave most humbly, my lord.
it is too rough, too rude, too boisterous; and it pricks like thorn.
i’d rather get a husband from your father .
if you refuse it ,  the whole country will regret it .
mankind is so beautiful !
i’ll bet my life that he only wrote this letter to gauge my love for you ,  and for no other reason .
i’m surprised my bland husband didn’t meet me on the way here .
i’ve seen the whole thing ,  and it’s completely worthless—unless you think their bad acting and their misremembered lines—which they memorized so painfully—are funny .
quiet !
you ask me why i would rather choose to have a weight of dead flesh than to receive three thousand dollars .
oh no !
what's the news from venice ?
i wish i were in an alehouse in london !
your daughter spent, as i heard, one night, in genoa eighty dollars.
then your lips will feel them more quickly .
start the fire ,  good curtis .
come ,  we'll go in here ,  wait for the mourners ,  and stay for dinner .
no ,  he loves and cherishes me .
i think that ,  since she must die once ,  i have the patience to endure it now .
me too ,  i swear .
who are they that do play it?
oh ,  it’s too bad !
on me ,  though i am barely half the man that edward was ?
every wrong is not a hate at first.
why, all these should be in the lantern; for all these are in the moon.
though you untie the winds ,  and let them fight against the churches ,  though the roaring waves confuse sailors and sink ships ,  though corn on the cob be torn from its stalks ,  and trees blown down ,  though castles topple on their guards' heads ,  though palaces and pyramids bend their heads to their foundations ,  though the treasure of nature's buds tumble all together ,  even until destruction makes everything sick ,  answer the questions i ask you .
here he comes .
if i weren’t forbidden to tell you the secrets of
prepare yourself ,  please ,  for this trip .
as a wandering lunatic ,  he can do whatever he wants .
for shame ,  my lord ,  for shame !
oh ,  young and noble cato ,  have you been slain ?
okay ,  but please not before me .
it’s a good thing for you that ,  being castrated ,  you can better concentrate on my needs .
the point poisoned too!
well ,  keep me company for only two more years ,  and you’ll never know the sound of your own voice .
and keep yourself hidden ,  i command you .
let me shake your hand, salanio.
please ,  tell benedick about her feelings and see what he has to say .
if you leave me so depressed ,  you do me wrong .
well ,  that doesn’t worry me .
very grave brabantio ,  i come to you in simple and pure soul .
well ,  don’t face off with me .
o ,  for a chair ,  to carry him easily from here !
now when you awake, see with yours own fool's eyes.
use your clubs and spears !
i’m my own spokesman .
nothing is good, i see, without respect: i think it sounds much sweeter at night than by day.
make room !
and then to escape drowning three times ,  and to be in fear for my life with the edge of a feather bed; here are simple escapes .
the wound can’t be that bad .
what's the matter ,  lady ?
but constant expression of wild grief will only make it tame ,  so i’m not going to say any more about my boys until i’ve gouged your eyes out with my bare hands .
both, both, my girl.
take that ,  and that !
if our father were dead you’d receive half of his revenue forever ,  and you’d have my undying love ,       edgar .  ”  hmm ,  what’s this ,  a conspiracy ?
then ,  dreadful trumpet ,  sound the general doom !
can you tell me if a man named launcelot ,  who lives with him ,  is still there ?
oh ,  the poor bird .
clever lies .
no more of that.
hail to you ,  baron of cawdor !
no ,  good lieutenant; i beg you ,  sir ,  stop .
i’ll take the queen into my custody .
your head ,  my lord ?
the king acts unnaturally—father against child .
what’s the news ?
still harping on my daughter .
come now, my sweet bianca!
arise ,  black vengeance ,  from your hollow hell !
but ,  o grief ,  where have you taken me ?
thank you ,  i’m sure .
what is the matter, my lord?
very heathenish and very gross!
would you like to taste the banquet ?
are you sitting around in this humiliation to amuse yourself ?
conscience and grace, to the deepest pit!
there’s a husband there who’s waiting to make you his wife .
i will put this napkin in cassio's room, and let him find it.
yours are slow and awkward .
from this moment on ,  i’ll never say another word .
with nothing but truth .
god protect me from these two !
try to get him to do that .
if caesar had stabbed their mothers ,  they would have done the same thing .
in youth when i did love ,  did love ,  i thought it was very sweet ,  to contract ,  o ,  the time for ,  ah ,  my reason ,  o ,  i thought there was nothing meet .
drown yourself!
what’s going on between you two ?
but when this ring parts from this finger, then life parts from my body: oh!
no .
my lord ,  i swear to you— oh ,  don’t swear !
but she, because she was mortal, died giving birth to the boy; and, for her sake, i am raising him, and, for her sake, i will not part with him.
she’s not talking to me .
hall to you, lady!
yield, or you die.
so, bare your chest.
speak, speak!
do all your conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils, boil down to this?
youth rebels against itself, even if no one else is near.
i won’t do them wrong; i would rather choose to wrong the dead ,  to wrong myself ,  and you ,  before i’ll wrong such honorable men .
richard is looking cheerful today .
oh ,  who did this thing ?
yes ,  what of that ?
or, if he wrote his mind, give me his letter.
my lord, the king your father.
laertes ,  you shall hear them .
am not i your lord?
i had a round with him ,  and his sword thrust is so deadly that you can’t even duck out of the way .
in the high and mighty roman empire ,  just before the emperor julius caesar was assassinated ,  corpses rose out of their graves and ran through the streets of rome speaking gibberish .
please give it to me .
he went before me, and still dares me to fight; when i get to where he’s calling from, he’s gone.
let him go ,  gertrude .
ophelia, you walk here.
i’m glad that my weak words have provoked even this small show of protest from you .
a clever speech is wasted on a stupid ear .
you’re famous for it .
i know that she is worthy of that love .
for shame, you lazy loafer!
but will you listen to how i proceeded?
look, how he mocks me!
you haven’t got it in you to frown or look displeased or bite your lip as angry women do .
hello ,  beautiful helena !
what would you have with me?
now get out of here !
and when does he leave?
i'll tell the news .
good-night, lieutenant; i must get going to the guard.
liar, and slave!
my granddaughter ,  with her kind aunt ,  the duchess of gloucester ,  leading her by the hand ?
with the help of the grim  the first to greet me there was my great
let's make us medicines of our great revenge, to cure this deadly grief.
hear antony; most noble antony !
away, away, be gone!
therefore it’s certain that he wasn’t ambitious .
it will likely be a bloody fight .
go ,  leave me .
our tattered navy has reassembled and set sail ,  as formidable as the sea itself .
i had rather be a toad, and live on the air of a dungeon, than keep a piece of the thing i love for others' uses.
i’d rather have this tongue cut from my mouth than it should do offense to michael cassio; still, i convince myself, speaking the truth shall not wrong him.
i am sorry, but heaven has decided it to be this way, to punish me with this act, and punish this act with me, that i must be their whip and whip-er.
portia!
your master is a wise and honorable roman .
take your face out of here.
sorry ,  sir ,  goodman verges tends to ramble .
here they come .
if you did it ,  you are without equal .
if you were as young as i am ,  if you were in love with juliet ,  if you had just married her an hour ago ,  if then you murdered tybalt ,  if you were lovesick like me ,  and if you were banished ,  then you might talk about it .
nerissa teaches me what to believe: i'll die for it, but some woman took the ring.
nothing can come between me and the fulfillment of all my hopes .
this torture should make a loud noise in dismal hell.
what ,  did caesar faint ?
pick up the body .
and even though i’m in a distasteful mood ,  i’ll work on being happy .
o my dear brother !
here !
where do they live?
make me see it ; or at the least prove it so that the accusation has no hinges or loops to hang a doubt on ,  or woe on your life !
it never entered my mind to know more .
blab my nonsense ?
sir ,  i don’t have a promotion .
you see how simple and how in love i am .
i think i see my cousin's ghost looking for romeo who pierced his body with a sword's point.
stop it.
oh ,  damn her ,  damn her !
help me here ,  hello !
you are too over - zealous on her behalf that rejects your services .
why didn’t they just kill us that night ?
if she offers him her love ,  it’s very possible that he’ll scorn it ,  since ,  as we all know ,  he tends to be contemptuous .
but here's my husband; and as much duty as my mother showed to you, preferring you before her father, so much i dispute that i may profess due to the moor, my lord.
please pardon our brother clarence .
the boy was the very support of my age, my very prop.
but we loved him so much that we would not understand what was the best action ,  but ,  like the owner of a dirty disease ,  to keep it from showing ,  let it feed even on the core of life .
he ran this way and jumped over this orchard wall .
the fractured world ,  in its confusion ,  should send lions into the city streets and humans into the wilderness to live in lions’ dens .
oh ,  what a sinful thought !
valiant othello ,  we must straight send you against the general enemy ottoman .
either we go after pompey or he’ll come after us .
our son shall win.
what are you ,  girl ?
we’re being haunted .
we’re all lost!
look ,  here comes cassio and my husband .
i was so crazy myself that i forgot all about him .
den it shall also content me .
climate was a delicate mistress .
i thank you very much on his behalf .
holy franciscan friar !
lurk out of sight .
mercutio's relative ,  noble count paris !
what do you want to do ,  desdemona ?
it is he, that villain, romeo.
but if these events, as i’m sure they do, bear fire enough to kindle cowards, and to harden the melting spirits of women with valor, then, countrymen, what do we need any other motivation except our own causeto prod us to revenge?
it would be good to let the general know about it.
here, with the permission of brutus and the rest,— because brutus is an honorable man; and they are all, all honorable men,— i come to speak in caesar's funeral.
the moor has killed my mistress !
never to speak of what you have heard, swear by my sword.
have they come back ?
you know that he does .
play some music while he chooses .
the brave experience death only once .
how ?
who in the crowd is calling me ?
but ,  unfortunately ,  caesar has to bleed if we’re going to stop him .
shall one of us who killed the most important man in all this world just to support robbers,— shall we now contaminate our fingers with lowly bribes and sell the mighty positions of our great honors for so much trash as may be grabbed like this?
i had a scar here that looked like a  “ t ” ; now it’s an  “ h .  ”  they’re retreating .
come here ,  servant .
you can see my ribs so well you can count them .
well ,  enough about them . —come here ,  catesby .
what’s your profession ?
if i were so easy to quarrel as you are, any man should buy the inherited estate of my life for an hour and a quarter.
you find yourself a bed ,  and i will rest my head upon this bank .
the only reason you left india was to come here and see that butch amazon hippolyta .
but when we have an hour to spare we can talk more about it ,  if you’re willing .
in sadness, cousin, i do love a woman.
go tell the priests to do the sacrifice now ,  and bring me their opinions of success .
my dearest sister !
where is polonius ?
yes; as sparrows are by eagles ,  or the hare is by the lion .
parting is such sweet sorrow that i shall say good night until it’s tomorrow .
shake it off.
i like you very much .
you go and take care of your business (since everybody has some business to take care of ,  whatever it is worth) ,  and i’ll go and pray .
what’s your message ?
why ,  love ?
what do you think?
it is only change, titinius, because octavius is overthrown by noble brutus' power, as cassius' armies are by antony.
of all men else i have avoided you .
my husband lives ,  that tybalt would have slain ,  and tybalt's dead ,  that would have slain my husband .
be friendly to people but don’t overdo it .
believe me ,  i would rather have lost my purse full of money ,  and ,  except that my noble moor is true of mind and made of no such lowness as jealous creatures are ,  it would be enough to put him to ill thinking .
but if it overwhelms you to look at caesar’s wounded cloak ,  how will you feel ,  kind men ,  now ?
romeo can ,  though heaven cannot .
oh night with hue so black !
why are you silent?
the moor’s killed my mistress !
yes ,  my lord .
what ,  is the fellow mad ?
he was a wreck ,  almost past hope .
who's there?
saint francis be my speed !
come on ,  close the curtain ,  nerissa .
welcome .
now we'll fight together ,  and the chance of goodness will like our necessary quarrel !
bottom ! —oh most courageous day !
if you are trinculo, come out.
yes ,  go ahead and moan ,  because you killed the sweetest ,  most innocent woman who ever lived !
come ,  come ,  come ,  come ,  give me your hand .
then she has sworn to remain a virgin?
i ate with him and my sister .
do you think they’re married?
why i’m going down into this tomb is partly to see my lady's face ,  but mostly to take a precious ring from her dead finger ,  a ring that i must use in a very special errand .
when i spoke that, i was ill-tempered too.
he says he’ll come .
no, that's certain.
then the world is one .
every one should prepare to follow this beautiful corpse to her grave .
too bad it fell flat .
let’s proceed .
good night ,  dear captain blunt .
ha, ha, ha!
follow my voice; we won’t test your manhood here.
this makes me feel so much better !
i will preach to the world for him; that is ,  make questions and answer them .
i’m not who i appear to be .
go get my best clothes .
poor knave ,  i don’t blame you; you’ve been wake up too long .
what have you done ?
please ,  educate me .
call claudius and some others of my men; i'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
what time is it now ?
yes, a prophet!
i’ll get your goats ,  audrey .
he says they can’t do anything like this.
weeping and wailing over tybalt's corpse .
father is on the lookout .
to do this is within the scope of man's wit ,  and therefore ,  i will attempt to do it .
sweets to the sweet.
i knew you must be aware of the margin before you had finished .
monday !
where we quietly buried you ,  has opened up its heavy marble jaws to spit you out again .
be as your thoughts teach you; whatever you are, i am obedient.
for love of god, leave him alone!
i’m old and foolish .
he poured a pint of rhine wine on my head once .
why are you giving me his title ?
good night .
we found him in the churchyard .
this disease is beyond my medical skills .
we’ll put a picture of you on a sign ,  right above the words  “ come see the tyrant !  ”  i’m not going to surrender and have to kiss the ground in front of malcolm ,  or be taunted by the common people .
poor prattler, how you talk!
oh!
he’s having a fit and talking nonsense .
he eats tonight with a harlot ,  and i will go there to him .
pray heaven it is state matters ,  as you think ,  and no plot or no jealous reason concerning you .
good night ,  everyone .
you mean  “ paragon .  ”  a  the duke’s leaving the temple .
why is this all wagered ,  as you call it ?
then music with her silver sound  ” with speedy help gives relief from sorrow .  ”  what kind of an annoying knave is this guy ?  !
he carries a third of the world .
he knows i recognize him .
you’d better get me  but does he know that i’m here in the forest and dressed in men’s clothing ?
any man can get drunk sometime .
that's not true.
i’m a fool . —let’s go ,  lorenzo . —goodbye for now .
hurry up ,  i say .
or are we both on drugs ?
will your majesty grant us permission to freely express the message we’ve been asked to convey ?
stand next to me for a while, because someone is coming hastily.
stay right here and try to look good .
i must go to his house and tell his wife that he came bursting into my place like a lunatic and stole my ring .
an excellent courtesy!
oh ,  if you only knew how close to success you are ,  even while you make fun of what i’m telling you !
she had a song of "willow," it was an old thing but it expressed her fortune, and she died singing it.
nothing ,  good sir ,  but for you to help mr .  cobweb scratch my head .
i only say what she is.
no, i am the very small spot of courtesy.
the scripture says adam digged.
isn’t he honest ?
let me see this face .
our army shall somberly attend this funeral and then depart for rome .
so it is ,  if you knew our reasons .
man’s cheeks .
will you leave and hide?
go there and compare her objectively to some other girls i’ll show you .
what is the matter here ?
in short ,  i’m not .
i need to speak a word with you .
sir ,  it’s a troupe of actors who want to perform for your lordship .
and see that you write these few precepts in your memory .
go get aliena ready—because ,  look ,  here comes my rosalind .
go ,  blockheads ,  go ,  and bring my supper to me .
pick up this rope ladder .
signior brabantio, ho!
i’ll cure you of your insolence ,  and i’m not going to give you a thousand crowns ,  either ! —hey ,  dennis !
meet me and gratiano at his house in about an hour .
let’s follow the music as far as we can without leaving our station and see if it stops .
give me those flowers.
yes ,  my lord ?
there is no world for me outside the walls of verona ,  except purgatory ,  torture ,  and hell itself .
look at macbeth—he’s in a daze .
but listen ,  if
i am a man again .
o, yes; and went between us very often.
and haven’t we got affections ,  desires for sport ,  and frailty ,  as men have ?
yours, yours.
go hide ,  adam ,  and you’ll hear how he abuses me .
i’m in so much trouble with my niece that it wouldn’t be safe to let this prank go to its conclusion .
i could go on weeping like a woman and bragging about how i will avenge them !
isn’t there more be done?
have i ,  my lord ?
oh ,  i suffered along with all the men i watched suffer !
a wonderful miracle !
fine ,  but not enough .
call the priest .
and that’s all there is to it .
let her come in .
but miranda is so much more beautiful ,  you can’t even compare the two .
i haven’t seen you since you sent me to the centaur with the gold you gave me .
i wish i had !
i don’t remember .
what good does heaven have in store that can do me any good now ?
damn my soul if these accusations are true !
why ,  no ,  sir .
come ,  go with me .
he has no children.
such a one i am to fear, not anyone else.
it was not caesar’s bravery that conquered antony but antony’s that has triumphed over himself .
she can’t hurt you ,  helena .
you blush bright red as soon as you hear any news .
to which we all appeal .
that’s where we’ll meet with macbeth .
come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
well, what was yours?
they saw him just now as mad and deranged as the stormy sea ,  singing loudly ,  wearing a crown of nettles ,  thorns ,  hemlock ,  and all the other weeds that grow in our cornfields . —send out a hundred soldiers to find him .
his messengers are waiting here to take me to him immediately ,  on pressing state business .
mark antony— pardon me ,  caius cassius .
you wronged yourself to write on behalf of such a man .
but his frail heart ,  too weak to grapple with such a conflict between joy and sadness ,  gave out .
but in spite of all this ,  the man is still wealthy enough .
let him come, and now tell caesar what it is that he wants.
now it’s time to get your costumes together .
where are lysander and fair hermia ?
i could do it myself .
who says he is ?
the bishop of ely has fled to richmond ,  and buckingham ,  backed by a hardy welsh army ,  is on the march .
and not one vessel escaped the dreadful touch of the rocks that can break a merchant?
a likely piece of work that you should find it in your bedroom and not know who left it there!
too quickly ,  we boarded a ship .
why, for that too.
a woman who was beautiful but never proud ,  who could speak well but knew when to be quiet ,  who dressed well but was never overdressed ,  who had self - restraint even when she could get what she wanted ,  a woman who never took revenge ,  who overlooked it when people hurt her ,  who was too wise to do anything stupid ,  who could think without revealing her thoughts ,  and who could refrain from flirting with men in love with her ,  that kind of woman ,  if she ever existed ,  would— would do what ?
dear woman ,  you don’t know the rules of charity .
by st .  paul ,  ghosts have struck more terror in my soul tonight than ten thousand of worthless richmond’s soldiers could ,  dressed up in their most sword - proof armor .
was the duke of milan kicked out of milan so his children could become kings of naples ?
it’s bitterly cold out ,  and i’m depressed .
give me the letter .
now my spells are all broken ,  and the only power i have is my own ,  which is very weak .
by jesus ,  i am your majesty’s countryman ,  and i don’t care who knows it .
it’s a villain and a bastard and a coward and a rascal .
no ,  i don’t .
if there’s any way i can spoil his life ,  i’ll be overjoyed .
if ,  in your wisdom ,  you can’t help me ,  only say that my solution is a wise one ,  and right now ,  with this knife ,  i'll help solve it .
you drank it all and didn’t leave just a friendly drop to help me join you?
when we’re born ,  we cry because we’ve arrived on the stage of life ,  like all the other fools .
if i can’t have an estate by birthright ,  then i’ll get it by being clever .
you have known what you should not .
whoa, ha, hey!
ah ,  but i know you .
by mary ,  sir ,  by many a wind instrument that i know .
then the two of them will both pursue one girl .
and they thought margaret was hero ?
if you leave me like this ,  you’re doing me wrong .
rage on ,  blow !
when it’s all over ,  you only look at an empty stool .
if our criminal master gets off free ,  i won’t care what happens to me anymore .
please ,  sir ,  stand up; i am sure you are not launcelot ,  my boy .
o monstrous world!
do you know him ?
was this beautiful paper ,  this very excellent book ,  made to write  “ whore ”  on ?
are they likely to get dusty ?
is he dead ?
that’s one of them .
a guy like that is bigger than an ape ,  but the ape could be his doctor ,  it’s so much smarter .
o scotland ,  scotland !
when he leaves ,  it’s very important that i talk to you .
it’s best to rehearse there ,  because if we do it here in the city ,  we’ll be bothered by crowds of people and everyone will know the plot of our play .
she’s very moral .
he looks as though he’s in a great hurry!
how satisfied ,  my lord ?
my daughter, susan, and she god rest all christian souls!
i swear to you by cupid's strongest bow, by his best arrow, the one with the golden head, by the simplicity of venus' doves, by that which knits souls and favors lovers, and by that fire which burned dido, the carthage queen, when the false trojan, aeneas, was seen sailing away,— by all the vows that men have forever broken, in greater numbers than women have ever spoken,— in that same place you have described to me, i will meet you tomorrow, truly.
these are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
the crow sings as sweetly as the lark when either is waited on ,  and i think the nightingale ,  if she sang by day ,  when every goose is cackling ,  would be considered no better a musician than the wren .
my voice is ragged .
he’s definitely the most active gentleman of france .
for the table ,  sir ,  it shall be served in; for the meat ,  sir ,  it shall be covered; for your coming in to dinner ,  sir ,  why ,  let it be as sense and meaning shall determine .
look ,  sir ,  here comes the lady walking toward my cell .
i leave him to you .
you haven’t got dreams or fantasies which busy care draws in the brains of men.
do what you want to do ,  because i’m finished with you .
i’ll tear it up when it’s paid .
lady beatrice ,  have you been crying this entire time ?
no ,  you’re just taunting me .
mark antony is at dinner in egypt and won’t be going outside to make war .
believe me ,  i’ll draw my sword as quick as any other man if i see a fight starting and the law is on my side .
no, not a whit.
i certainly did ,  and i never wanted to see you again .
don’t delay .
speak ,  is it missing ?
my father capulet wants it that way; and i won’t do anything to stop him from being so hasty.
my dear othello!
monster ,  use your fingers .
i will ,  sir .
leave it alone ,  you fool .
what, did caesar faint?
if i can tame him ,  i’ll charge as much as i can get for him .
wife !
don’t talk of him except as a property .
no, how will you do for a husband?
come ,  you are too moral .
sir ,  i will answer anything .
tell me ,  are you and ensign pistol friends again yet ?
i never gave him gifts.
i don’t expect him to answer for me ,  and yet i’m determined to fight vigorously for him .
and i’ll use that piece of rope to welcome you with .
it cannot be called our mother, only our grave.
heaven knows you’re as unfaithful as hell .
then, i defy you, stars!
you said the enemy would not come down ,  but keep the hills and upper regions .
how can you be out of breath when you have enough breath to tell me that you’re out of breath ?
for lead?
unnatural acts will cause  good night ,  good doctor .
wait, who’s coming here?
or was i dreaming ?
and i have much less to comfort me than you do ,  since i’ve lost my daughter .
unless i am mistaken ,  signior baptista may remember me from the pegasus in genoa ,  where we both stayed twenty years ago .
if you do ,  by mary ,  i’ll give you this curse for your wedding gift: whether you as chaste as ice ,  as pure as snow ,  you shalt not escape slander .
this love feel i makes me feel no love in this .
why, in good time.
swear priests and cowards ,  and deceitful men ,  old feeble dead bodies and such suffering souls that welcome wrongs; swear to bad causes that such creatures as men doubt ,  but don’t stain the even goodness of our undertaking ,  or the unsuppressed character of our spirits ,  to think that our cause and our performance need oaths ,  when every drop of blood that every roman carries ,  and carries nobly ,  is guilty of causing the birth of several bastards ,  if he breaks the smallest particle of any promise that he has made .
no ?
gone ?
i’ll be obedient and do all my tasks without complaining .
there’s a knocking at the gate .
and the grace of heaven ,  before you ,  behind you ,  and on every hand ,  surround you !
will you take me ,  my lady ?
the moon shines bright: in such a night as this ,  when the sweet wind gently kissed the trees ,  and they made no noise ,  in such a night ,  troilus i think climbed the walls of troy ,  and sighed his soul toward the grecian tents ,  where cressida lay that night .
the night air is too raw and cold for us to stay outdoors .
i never saw him like this before .
was that my father that went away so fast ?
how many goodly creatures are there here!
who ?
no .
i’m glad your father isn’t alive to see this .
spirits ,  which ,  by my magic ,  i have called from their borders to enact my present wishes .
before we were even at sea for two days ,  a very nasty looking pirate chased us .
can you imagine cement and stone talking better ?
should i do it now ?
you know that banquo and his son, fleance, live.
the queen drinks to your fortune ,  hamlet .
but for your private satisfaction ,  because i love you ,  i’ll tell you .
who cares for them ?
in god’s name ,  speak .
and wake the goddess of love with a hymn; pierce your mistress’ ear with sweetest touches, and bring her home with music.
only give birth to male children ,  for your unconquered spirit should be passed on only to males .
i'll find either death or you immediately .
i tell you ,  you can use it to get your shoes fixed .
i swear on my life and honor ,  he’ll sit here in the stocks until noon .
not so, my lord, because his courage cannot carry his secret-keeping, but the fox carries the goose.
my lord bassanio gave his ring away to the judge that asked for it ,  and indeed deserved it too; and then the boy ,  his clerk ,  that took some pains in writing ,  he asked for mine; and neither man nor master would take anything else but the two rings .
isn’t it strange ?
goneril would go crazy if i chose regan ,  but it would be hard to get in with goneril while her husband’s still alive .
i can’t promise that love won’t transform me ,  but i can promise you this: until i truly fall in love ,  a woman will never make me act like such a fool .
i’d say the same thing ,  but i’m afraid i’d be faced out of my way .
if you did, i don’t care.
what noise is this?
then i have offended none.
he can’t give his house away to his daughters ,  leaving himself without shelter .
o king stephano!
my lord of cambridge and my good lord of masham and you ,  my noble knight ,  what do you think ?
your words suit you as your wounds do; they both tell of honor.
have you not set lysander ,  as in scorn ,  to follow me ,  and praise my eyes and face ?
he doesn’t hear, he doesn’t make noise, he doesn’t move; the fool is dead, and i must conjure him up!
referee !
i’ll wait till his beard grows in ,  if you’ll just hurry up and tell me what chin that beard is on .
o hamlet, what a falling-off there was in our marriage!
juliet ,  the count is waiting .
but mortals like you aren’t allowed to hear this description of the afterlife .
i say ,  to buy his good will ,  i extend this friendship; if he will take it ,  okay; if not ,  goodbye; and ,  for my friendship ,  please don’t insult me .
their words are natural breath, but, however you have been jostled out of your senses, know for certain that i am prospero, and that very duke who was thrown out of milan, who most strangely landed on this shore, where you were wrecked, to be the lord of it.
farewell ,  brother .
this will either make us or break us .
i’ll go to the antipodes for any little errand you can think of .
where are you going ?
get going already .
but, however you pursue this revenge, don’t taint your mind, or let your soul plan anything against your mother.
no ,  in spite of sense and secrecy ,  don’t open the basket on the roof ,  let the birds fly ,  and ,  like the famous ape to test conclusions ,  don’t creep into the basket and break your own neck .
you'll be the man !
here comes the good macduff.
my mistress here lies murdered in her bed— no ,  heaven forbid !
my wife was killed too ?
we’ll never see each other again .
how ?
my name is edgar ,  and i’m your father’s son .
your lieutenant, if you like; he's no main officer.
what, all my pretty chickens and their mother at one fell swoop?
this is the fruit of whoring.
there’s not a man in all athens able to play pyramus but he .
that’s a nasty garter belt .
what did i promise ,  my dear ?
leave me, friends.
yes ,  too gentle .
o, my mind is full of scorpions, dear wife!
no ,  let's follow him .
peace, oh!
have some of my servants take care of malvolio .
why don’t you go away for a bit ?
o ,  they are our friends ,  only one cup .
who does it gallop for ?
good portia, go ahead to bed.
we are fortunate in the change .
there are women like that out there ,  no question .
hold the friar too.
the court has sent for us .
alas ,  that love ,  so gentle in his promise ,  should be so tyrannous and rough in reality !
but wasn’t this near the shore?
humbly i thank your grace .
and some have greatness thrust upon them .  ”  heaven help you !
then leave him out .
a metaphor.
don’t think i’m in love with him just because i’m asking about him .
i can tell your majesty ,  the duke is a brave man .
i have a bad cold that’s bothering me .
just as when the sun rises and shipwrecking storms and terrible thunder stop ,  so from that man ,  who seemed to bring comfort ,  discomfort got worse .
i don’t know what else it could be .
go away ,  get out of here ,  and stop following me .
brutus ,  what will we do ?
if i live long enough to touch you again ,  that would be as good as having my eyesight back .
i bet my life on it .
i met venus as she was with her son on her way to her home on paphos ,  in a carriage pulled by doves .
only one man in ten thousand is good in this world .
get back to him quickly speed ,  and tell him what has happened .
where else would she be ?
damn, damn!
you’ll see shortly how the murderer wins the love of gonzago’s wife .
you ,  sir ,  always told me i couldn’t do anything without bidding .
i wouldn’t commit so serious a crime for anything .
no !
i'll have this marriage done tomorrow morning.
i’m going to sell all my land .
i suspect his friends will join us .
your fortune stood on the chests there, and so did mine, as it works out; because courting here until i worked up a sweat, and swearing promises until my mouth was dry with oaths of love, at last, if her promise lasts, i got a promise of this beautiful one here to have her love, provided that you were lucky enough to get her mistress.
what is it ?
it’s midnight .
can you help me ?
not that i don’t love you .
where is that snake ?
to tell the truth ,  gratiano ,  you’re giving your wife a valid reason to get upset .
now i will believe that there are unicorns; that in arabia there is one tree ,  the throne of the phoenix; one phoenix reigning there now .
madam ,  i go with all convenient speed .
nor i. i would not live there, to put my father into violent thoughts, by being always in his sight.
no ,  not for all the world .
all the diseases that the sun sucks up from bogs ,  swamps ,  flats ,  fall on prospero and make him a disease inch by inch !
and i.
and here i am ,  with that piece .
and i missed yours .
let’s go ,  and ,  with a clear eye ,  compare her face with some others that i shall show you ,  and i will make you think your swan is a crow .
this disrespectful stance toward the man who is your lord ,  your king ,  your governor tarnishes your beauty the way the frosts of winter blights the land .
well ,  then ,  help me .
please ,  give my regards to your mother ,  mrs .  peapod ,  and your father ,  mr .  peapod .
this is the truth ,  or let benvolio die .
it’s damnation to think such a low thought; it’s too gross even to be used as her shroud in the obscure grave .
forever showering ?
and what an excellent piece of work it is ,  too ,  madam lady !
i heard him groan .
well ,  if you could have just an inch of better fortune than me ,  where would you like the improvement ?
fit to govern !
no.
if you meet the prince in the night ,  you can order him to stop .
tell us the oath, my lord.
then i’ll change it to this: father time himself is bald ,  so for all time there will be bald men .
o ,  i wish you were of the same mind as i am !
you won’t be seeing anything . —hold his chair still ,  men . —i’m going to put my foot on his eyes .
many men seek their fortune at seventeen; at eighty ,  it’s a bit late .
who is calling so loudly?
would i dare do something like that ?
if a jew offends a christian ,  what’s the christian’s kind and gentle reaction ?
three thousand dollars - i think i may take his promise to pay.
civil wounds now can heal ,  and peace can live again .
i have done the deed.
look ,  when i vow ,  i weep; and vows that are born in tears show the whole truth at that moment .
but silence; here comes thisbe .
but never mind.
where are you from ?
i am not merry; but i cheat the thing i am by seeming otherwise.
what is this news about ?
that is done, sir; they have all stomachs.
tell him that, with his permission, fortinbras desires to carry out a promised march over his kingdom.
perhaps ,  to make it the more gracious ,  i shall sing it at her death .
you can go straight to hell !
all that's spoken is marred.
so you’re saying you’re not a whore ?
listen to the captain's whistle.
first go with me to church and marry me ,  and then go away to venice to your friend; because you shall never lie by portia's side with an uneasy soul .
really, my lord, i would not.
the enemy, marching along with them, will increase their numbers with them, and attack refreshed, reinforced, and encouraged; we shall cut him off from that advantage, if we face him at philippi, with these people behind us.
and to you ,  most noble caesar .
yes, my lord, i want to know that.
please go find out for certain who has arrived .
here’s to you ,  menas .
he’ll come right away .
but no beautiful woman has an honest face .
their understanding begins to increase ,  and the approaching tide of understanding will shortly fill the reasonable shores of their minds that are now corrupt and muddy .
o i wish i had a falconer's voice to lure this hawk back to me again !
the adventurous knight will wave around his sword and shield ,  the lover will be rewarded for his sighs ,  the crazy character can rant all he wants ,  the clown will make everybody laugh ,  and the lady character can say whatever’s on her mind ,  or i’ll stop the play .
who did this ,  sir andrew ?
will they see us ?
you teach me how i should act .
you accuse me most unjustly.
on thursday ,  sir ?
the galleys have sent a dozen sequential messengers this very night at one another's heels; and many of the consuls, awakened and meeting, are at the duke's already.
is that what you’ve heard ?
but men tend to interpret things however suits them and totally miss the actual meaning of the things themselves .
help !
look ,  here she comes ,  with your ungovernable wives in tow ,  like prisoners of her womanly persuasion . —katherine ,  that cap of yours doesn’t look good on you .
forgive me my truth ,  because ,  in the fatness of these wealthy times virtue itself must beg pardon of vice ,  yes ,  beg and court for permission to do him good .
o most pernicious woman !
but i don’t worry about being deceived because i don’t need to trust .
it’s easier to rule a third of the world than a wife like that .
come over here my right side ,  because i am deaf in this ear ,  and tell me what you really think of him .
if he speaks anything against me, i'll take him down, even if he were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks; and if i cannot, i'll find those that shall.
i wish you were what i wanted you to be !
me too .
no, but to live in the rotten sweat of an greasy bed, stewed in corruption, using sweet words and making love over the nasty pig sty.
oh ,  madam ,  madam ,  madam !
could that be a lawyer’s skull ?
yes ,  alright ,  go ,  i say ,  and bring him here .
certainly ,  your grandmother had a worse match .
i beg your pardon—i thought it was me whom you were calling all those terrible names .
pass the order along .
you’ll have to leave tonight .
can you bring me to the party ?
there ,  my blessing with you !
i hear him nearby .
your fall has left a blot that opens even the best and brightest to suspicion .
i won’t miss a chance to send you my greetings, love.
yes ,  this is what love does .
i think it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
you promised to take a full year off my sentence .
it is even so .
her funeral rites have been as far enlarged as we can enlarge .
what’s going on ,  daughter ?
it’s now late at night ,  and actions must accommodate bodily needs ,  which we’ll satisfy with only a short rest .
and to you ,  good sir .
that's my noble master !
i didn’t hear anything, madam.
she mocks all her suitors so severely that they drop the suit .
my lord ,  i say !
she’s the devil .
i did .
no ,  what provoked you was your own bloody mind ,  which never thinks about anything but butchering .
come on ,  sir andrew ,  there’s nothing you can do about it .
if you maybe suspect my father is an instrument of this calling you back ,  don’t lay your blame on me .
let’s go to him .
if we leave ,  it will feel like nothing less than death to them .
who’s calling me ?
i was not angry since i came to france until this instant .
come ,  go ,  good juliet .
what if it be a poison ,  which the friar has secretly given me to have me dead ,  so that he shouldn’t be dishonored because he married me to romeo before paris ?
oh me !
if the earth could be flooded with woman's tears ,  each drop she lets fall would prove to be a crocodile .
if i should take a displeasure against you ,  look you , — you were only a lost monster .
come, montague; because you are up early to see your son and heir taken down even earlier.
however your wit and luck allow .
i swear ,  sir ,  you did not eat at home .
romeo !
yes ,  your highness .
yet i have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds .
why do you speak so haltingly and angrily ?
why ,  it stood by her .
what is this noise?
there is a way ,  ma'am .
what ?
have you got eyes?
you told me to do the same ,  my liege .
i won’t say anything negative about what he might be .
how is that royal merchant ,  good antonio ?
forgive me ,  i beg you !
tell me the truth .
what was that thing i saw moving away from you up on the cliff before you fell ?
here lies the water, good.
i swear that nothing anyone can say will change my mind .
you don’t need eyes to see how the world works .
go back ,  slave ,  or i’ll knock you one across the head .
the king and prince are saying prayers!
nathaniel’s coat was being fixed ,  sir .
sir ,  we came to see your father’s funeral .
the world’s huge .
he acts like a man in love .
how happy can some other  “ other ”  be !
my lord, that would dishonor him.
and why should caesar be a tyrant then ?
i’ll yield my legions and cavalry to caesar .
o, ho, monster!
you shall see it will fall right just as i told you.—she comes from over there.
you have often started to tell me who i am ,  but you stopped ,  and left me to a useless questioning ,  concluding  “ wait ,  not yet .  ”  now it’s time ,  the very minute asks you to listen carefully; obey and listen .
how about the mustard without the beef .
who’s sounding that alarm ?
oh ,  my good lord ,  don’t make me insult music again with my awful singing .
you are welcome here ,  sister .
i remember a jumble of impressions ,  but nothing distinctly .
if we meet him at philippi ,  these people will be at our backs .
tomorrow ,  soldier ,  i’ll fight by sea and land .
for the favor of sleeping in her bed .
is it likely that the lead one holds her picture?
the all - seeing sun never saw anything to match her since the world first began .
how many times will caesar bleed in amusement ,  that lies now next to pompey's statue ,  no worthier than the dust !
and i’ll help you .
if i know this ,  and know the whole world too ,  i can shake off at pleasure that part of tyranny that i endure .
you were given birth by a woman.
she’s been dead for some time .
speak ,  i command you .
let me talk to you about your situation .
sir ,  i wouldn’t say i was your friend ,  but i’ve praised you when you deserved ten times more praise than i gave .
goodbye ,  edmund .
your servants always have their necessities, themselves, and what they own, in elegance, to make their reckoning of accounts at your highness' pleasure, still to return your own goods.
as i told you before, i am subject to a tyrant, sorcerer, that has cheated me of the island by his cunning.
i tell you it is not very well .
happily this is the second time he uses them ,  for they say an old man is twice a child .
goodbye .
will you speak well of him that killed your cousin ?
o hamlet ,  don’t say anything else .
goneril ,  you aren’t worth the dust the wind blows in your face .
at lovers' lies ,  they say jove laughs .
but, pity the time!
you’re tigers ,  not daughters .
i swear ,  lamond .
trinculo ,  watch out .
i won’t say a word .
slaying is the word; it is a deed that’s in style.
and you deadly cannons that roar like thunderbolts thrown by the gods ,  goodbye !
i’ll limp after you .
who’s sleeping in the second chamber ?
rest easy in the meantime .
i can too.
lady ,  did you sleep in her room last night ?
i should have been more unfriendly, i must confess, but you overheard, before i was aware of you, my true love’s passion.
he so impressed me, that i, through lies and tricks, didn’t waste time in finding out what he did.
they bleed on both sides .
i always loved you ,  hermia; always kept your counsels; never wronged you; except that ,  because of my love for demetrius ,  i told him of your running away into this forest .
but the man who carried my letter ,  friar john ,  was delayed by accident ,  and last night returned my letter to me .
i don’t know ,  sir .
give him the cup .
who’s the one who’s going out the door right now ?
that’s  “ ninus’s grave ,  ”  man .
which is the lady i’m supposed to marry ?
it’s as if this show describes the argument of the play .
delay this marriage for a month ,  a week; or ,  if you don’t ,  make my bridal bed in that dim tomb where tybalt lies .
what three things does drink especially instigate?
how many ,  do you guess ?
how say you by that?
with a touch of green in it.
be comforted.
there is no rest to be had in any bedroom where you are !
it waves me still .
did you see?
i knew there would be a masquerade when i got that bad omen of a bloody nose last easter monday ,  at six in the morning ,  four years after i got the same kind of bloody nose on ash wednesday ,  in the afternoon .
so i did ,  fearing that i might make you more impatient when you seemed already fired up ,  and besides ,  i was hoping it was just a bad mood ,  which sometimes hits every man .
this is what calpurnia’s dream means .
maybe he’s not feeling well .
i’m not cinna the conspirator.
yes ,  you would beg ,  if you were in my position .
to every roman citizen he gives seventy - five dollars each .
curse me, if i would do such a wrong thing for the whole world.
i swear by the heavens ,  which have grown pale in sympathy with us ,  i’m going with you ,  whatever you say .
the old king was so overjoyed by this promise that he gave young fortinbras an annual income of three thousand  i like this news ,  and when i have time i’ll read this and think about how to reply .
go!” says the devil; “away!” says the devil.
certainly ,  sir ,  i can .
here come two noble beasts, a moon and a lion.
i have used you ,  filth as you are ,  with human care ,  and let you live in my own dwelling ,  until you tried to rape my daughter .
if not ,  goodbye .
a man named taurus ,  they say .
therefore ,  stop grieving .
don’t even think about refusing .
you lie out of it ,  sir ,  and therefore it’s not yours .
here the painter plays the spider in her hair ,  and has woven a golden mesh to capture the hearts of men faster than gnats are caught in cobwebs: but her eyes ! — how could he see to do them ?
close by, my master.
i wish you could !
it’s a friend of antony’s .
you’re not supposed to get old until you’re wise .
o romeo ,  romeo !
though that must have been a pitiful sight ,  the ground looked beautiful .
when my cue comes, call me, and i will answer.
and cassio’s killed ?
we'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings ,  i have it !
caesar has sent— too slow a messenger .
o ,  if you were the noblest of your strain ,  young man ,  you could not die more honorably .
i don’t ,  until you use them on me .
no ,  sir .
take it easy !
it blesses the one who gives it and the one who receives it .
i can’t tell what you and other men think of this life; but, for myself alone, i would rather not live to be in awe of such a thing as i’m.
o, carry him out of the air.
i would rather be married to a skull with a bone in his mouth than to either of these princes.
i’ll go wait for dromio at the marketplace .
i have a pain on my forehead here .
aren’t you kent ?
please ,  leave me alone .
wasn’t that cassio leaving my wife?
good night, sweet prince, and flights of angels sing you to your rest!
don’t go out today.
otherwise ,  you would have made your tale large .
antony would easily outshine all imaginary beings .
the second rooster has crowed, the curfew bell has rung, it’s three o'clock.
i’m ready to suffer peacefully whatever he does to me in his cruelty and anger .
yes ,  every one of them ,  and every man here respects you ,  and every one wishes you had that opinion of yourself which every noble roman has for you .
go ,  hurry .
i do beg you, give him permission to go.
i’ll recite a prophecy before i go .
no ,  not a penny .
ha!
you’re a mender, are you?
whichever one you want .
as for those who have ,  i beg you to excuse the gaps in time ,  and the many people and things that cannot be represented here in all their magnitude and proper form .
when you avoid one trap ,  you fall into another .
but come on ,  start .
some people say that the earth shook as if it had a fever .
oh ,  fine .
have you seen him today.
because he’s daring us to do it .
you pale, ugly face!
couldn’t this make you know that the hate i have for you made me leave you like that?
faith ,  the rumor goes that you shall marry her .
keep your money .
why are you telling me this ?
show !
good lord !
a hundred and sixty - eight hours ?
will you help me?
what is it ,  sir ?
what would you like ?
he started it ,  my noble lord ,  and succeeding generations rebuilt it .
this honest creature undoubtedly sees and knows more, much more, than he reveals.
whoosh !
killing pigs.
here i am .
as for hamlet and the foolishness of his attentions ,  think that it is only a phase and a toy in blood .
what ,  to kiss in private ?
o lord ,  they’re fighting !
if you were my fool ,  uncle ,  i’d have you beaten for getting old before your time .
it is some misfortune; the cry is very sorrowful.
what do you call the carriages?
it does, my boy.
but i could see that cupid’s fiery arrow was put out by watery ,  virginal moonbeams ,  so the royal virgin continued her virginal thoughts without being interrupted by thoughts of love .
i’m the one who fathered those bloodsucking daughters .
tie him up like a thief and bring him here to me .
whoa ,  ha ,  hey !
are you really saying these things ,  or am i dreaming ?
well ,  then ,  there !
o mischief ,  you are quick to enter into the thoughts of desperate men !
is it a beggar ?
sir ,  here laertes is newly come to court ,  believe me ,  an absolute gentleman ,  full of most excellent traits ,  of very soft manners and looking great .
listen !
very sad .
if i die before you ,  i beg you ,  shroud me in one of those same sheets .
we’re safe from my father for at least three hours .
and, most dear actors, don’t eat any onions nor garlic, because we are to utter our lines with sweet breath; and i don’t doubt that we will hear them say it is a sweet comedy.
yes ,  my lord .
we would so, and then go swindling.
go down ,  because you must be carry my torch .
lorenzo ,  and your love .
turn your face there ,  patience ,  you young and rose - lipped archangel ,  yes ,  there ,  look as grim as hell !
how did that work?
my brains are injured .
how are you ,  my friend ?
don’t tell us what our duty is .
didn’t i tell you she was innocent ?
but go on .
i’ll put on some poor and ragged clothes and smudge my face with dirt .
be buried quickly with her ,  and so will i .
is there anything offensive in it ?
it was ,  so please your highness .
tybalt ,  the reason that i have to love you does excuse very much the rage that is appropriate for such a greeting .
can i have a word with you ,  lucillius ?
these our actors, as i told you before, were all spirits and have melted into air, into thin air: and, like the invisible fabric of this vision, the cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, the solemn temples, the great world itself, yes, all who inherit it, shall dissolve and leave not even a clue behind, as this pageant of no substance faded.
so, goodbye now, because brutus' tongue has almost ended his life's story.
well then ,  don’t bother .
you  but ,  uncle ,  we’re being disrespected .
crazy for your love ?
maybe we can benefit from the same chaos that has defeated us .
but how has she received his love?
on the condition that publius shall not live, who is your nephew, mark antony.
the players cannot keep a secret ,  they'll tell all .
that big ship over there looks no bigger
is that so ?
those who have known how bad things are here on earth .
these recent eclipses of the sun and moon don’t bode well for us .
of what city ,  may i ask ?
because when rich villains need poor villains' services ,  those poor ones can name the price .
who can be wise, amazed, temperate, and furious, loyal and neutral, in a moment?
horny animals !
less than a month after my father’s death ,  even before the tears on her cheeks had dried ,  she remarried .
do you have desires ?
the senate has decided to give mighty caesar a crown today .
think of your sins .
it is only change ,  titinius ,  because octavius is overthrown by noble brutus' power ,  as cassius' armies are by antony .
honestly ,  i didn’t see it ,  but i felt it in her hot breath .
here, where i point my sword, the sun rises, which is going a great way to the south, bringing in spring.
yes ,  it’s definitely nippy .
therefore, pardon me, and not attribute this surrender to light love, which the dark night has discovered.
he has a father ,  and yet he is fatherless .
you don’t have more than half an hour to live .
so, goodbye for now.
i only wish i could load him up with all the praise he deserves !
that, my best friend, might still inflame you with passion for the crown, in addition to the title of the baron of cawdor.
then i will lay the serving-creature's dagger on your head.
they sit chatting by the parlor fire .
i won’t be kind to you .
there isn’t a single protrusion in the castle walls where these birds haven’t built their hanging nests to sleep and breed .
oh ,  good demetrius ,  will you find him for me ?
i humbly thank you, well, well, well.
when she is like this ,  besides walking and performing various activities ,  have you heard her say anything ?
i’ll kill him !
that every  “ like ”  isn’t the same ,  o caesar ,  that the heart of brutus yearns to think about !
she said something she shouldn’t have said ,  i’m sure of that .
isn’t that enough ?
one more ,  one more; be like this when you are dead ,  and i will kill you ,  and love you after .
lady ,  by the blessed moon up there ,  that tips with silver all these fruit - tree tops ,  i swear o ,  don’t swear by the moon ,  the inconstant moon ,  that monthly goes through changes in her circled orbit ,  for fear that your love prove as variable as the moon .
will she go to bed now ?
so ,  where’s my wife ?
i want you there and back again before i can even tell you what you should do there .
even so ?
how is she ?
no ,  by this heavenly light !
must i watch you?
that’s like building a bridge wider than the river it crosses .
the saddle maker has it ,  sir—i didn’t keep it .
how do you mean removing of him ?
we do it wrong ,  its being so like the king ,  to offer it the show of violence ,  because it is ,  like the air ,  unable to be hurt ,  and our empty blows seem like a malicious joke .
oh ,  let me kiss this princess hand of pure white ,  this seal of bliss !
oh ,  my lord ,  my lord ,  forgive my panic !
is he enough of a man to wear a hat and grow a beard  ?
i sent the french queen with him too ,  for the same reason .
i don’t like his face .
i slept with cassio lately ,  and ,  being troubled with a raging tooth ,  i could not sleep .
ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall clear your name, when i, your wife for three hours, have mangled it?
this blue - eyed hag was brought here ,  pregnant ,  and was left here by sailors .
there lies the man slain by young romeo, that killed your kinsman, brave mercutio.
the sweetest honey is loathsome in its own deliciousness ,  and in the taste destroys the appetite .
some heavenly power guide us out of this fearful country!
since the wall is conscious ,  it should curse back at him .
but how strange that beatrice should seem to know who i was and yet not know at the same time .
this is what happens when you act rashly .
oh ,  how stupid !
did he express any dissatisfaction with you ,  either in his words or his face ?
pile of dirt !
i hope my noble lord believes i am faithful .
his insane period is over .
if i may say so ,  your majesty ,  as i see it he would be a coward and a villain not to .
bleed, bleed, poor country!
yes ,  she said that .
so young ,  my lord ,  and honest .
this guy will tell us everything .
so, uncle, there you are.
we have not betrayed you .
we’ll have one heart ,  one bed ,  two bodies ,  and one faithful vow .
come ,  put it over my face .
i’m afraid so ,  i promise you .
beat me!
it’s a skull with a scroll in its empty eye socket .
in that case ,  i think cassio’s an honest man .
listen to the situation and the event; then tell me if this might be a brother.
and earth !
it’s my daughter !
i don’t
i don’t have it with me.
what's the news?
that’s true.
if you had known the virtue of the ring, or half the worthiness of her who gave the ring, or your own honor to hold the ring, you wouldn’t have parted then with the ring.
go inside yourself .
but what can be done to prevent it ?
are you crazy ?
wear both the ring and my heart ,  because both are yours .
my lord ,  i can’t .
freely tell her the truth; beg her help to put you in your place again.
what, ho, brabantio!
i am not yet so low that my nails can’t reach yours eyes.
we’ll hit him on the head with the handles of our swords ,  then throw him in the wine barrel in the next room .
change course ,  my brain !
good - night ,  good doctor .
i never heard such gallant scolding; because, besides the groves, the skies, the fountains, every region near seemed to have one mutual cry.
this king is a branch of that same victorious stock .
i’ll put the juice of this flower on titania’s eyes ,  and fill her with horrible delusions and desires .
i’d rather have a handful or two of dried peas .
i shouldn’t see the time pass in the sands of an hour-glass but i’d be thinking about shallows and sandbars, and seeing my wealthy ship of war run aground, lowering her high top sails lower than her hull to sink.
oh ,  it sounded like a sweet breeze blowing gently over a bank of violets ,  taking their scent with it .
let me see your eyes .
my worthy lord ,  your noble friends miss your company .
no ,  i don’t want to send your soul to hell when i kill you .
get started, i beg you, on this speedy voyage, for we will control this fear, which now goes about too freely.
i didn’t take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me .
she deceived her father by marrying you; and when she seemed to shake and fear your looks, she loved them most.
o, who has done this deed?
i’m glad to see you go .
then pack up your instruments and go away .
so ,  jew ,  though justice is your plea ,  consider this ,  that if we all got justice ,  none of us would see salvation; we pray for mercy ,  and that same prayer teaches us all to do the deeds of mercy .
young men will do it if they come to it ,  by god ,  they are to blame .
all school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?
bring him to me .
it’s the devil speaking through him .
my noble uncle, do you know the cause?
i’ll just speak a word or two here in the house and then i’ll go with you .
and you won’t until the needy eat .
it is a sin to heaven, a sin against the dead, a sin to nature, most ridiculous to reason, whose common theme is death of fathers, and who still has cried, from the first corpse to the man who died just today, ”this must be so.” we beg you, give up on this unusual grief, and think of us as of a father.
come; brands ,  oh !
is it because of
come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
and i get sick when i can’t look at you .
answer me straightforwardly .
speak ,  man .
go blabber with your gossiping friends .
a liberal hand .
on what grounds ?
here comes my man ,  the man i’m looking for .
sir ,  in algeria .
didn’t you see her play with the palm of his hand?
please ,  don’t forget to leave me a tip .
he shall spurn fate ,  scorn death ,  and bear his hopes above wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear .
i'll fetch them ,  sir .
your words and actions don’t match up .
remember me.
when did i earn this scorn at your hands ?
have montjoy hurry ,  then ,  lord constable ,  and have him ask the king of england what he is willing to pay us to get out of the war .
then meet me immediately at the notary's; give him directions for confirming this happy promise to pay, and i’ll go and get the dollars right away, check on my house, left in the care of an unlucky rogue, and i’ll be with you soon.
no ,  take my life and everything ,  don’t pardon that: you take my house when you take the prop that holds my house up; you take my life when you take the means by which i live .
come on; we'll visit caliban my slave, who never gives us a kind answer.
he is a subject for a king to contemplate ,  and for a king’s king to ride on ,  and for the world at large—both friend and stranger—to stop whatever they are doing and marvel at .
tonight is for celebrating !
no medicine in the world can cure you .
in every one of the lords' households i have a servant paid to spy for me .
i think so .
no doubt ,  my lord .
i swear, lamond.
here’s my key .
why, worthy baron, you weaken your noble strength to think about things in such a crazy way.
have you questioned him at all?
well ,  i’ll go to scone .
no ,  unpin my hair .
consider how poorly this reflects on me .
where did you get that cowardly look ?
sweetheart!
sir !
along with this strange power ,  he also has the gift of prophecy and various other abilities .
cassio shall take my place .
brother anthony—
yes ,  sir .
i mean, lay my head on your lap?
look at the stars ,  see how the floor of heaven is inlaid with small disks of bright gold .
worthy gentleman!
will they stop pursuing the stage when they can no longer sing ?
i’ve been invited to supper ,  jessica .
has there been such a time, i’d gladly know that, that i have positively said “it is so,” and it wasn’t?
she’s dead ,  deceased ,  she’s dead .
my generous welcomes, childishly cruel in being so perfect, seek to hide themselves in tears.
actually ,  sweet love ,  i was just coming to your house .
i will settle this matter .
the greatest hurdle is behind me.
since you asked ,  i suppose it’s not bragging to say that we are .
worthy macbeth ,  we are waiting for you .
let me tell
that's not so good now.
but here she comes .
i’m speechless .
this above all, to your own self be true, and it must follow, as the night the day, you cannot then be false to any man.
by my father’s death— your life has dishonored his death .
you don’t need to be afraid, lady, of having any of these lords; they have told me their intentions, which is indeed to go back to their homes, and to trouble you with no more suits, unless you may be won by some other way than your father's command, that getting you depends on the chests.
tonight, my lord?
just being thanked is more than enough for me ,  madam .
what do you mean ,  caesar ?
we'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors.
who’s in the second chamber ?
killed ?
then i’ll tell you .
ranting and raving to my own shadow !
menas ,  i don’t understand how minor quarrels can be superseded by greater ones .
do it, it’s well said, well said.
pray well ,  father .
forgive me .
they are in a rage.
you should be ashamed ,  generals !
we have sworn ,  my lord ,  already .
they have to stay there .
you go pale ,  you stare ,  and you act in awe of the strange disturbance in the heavens .
what woman then ?
stones have been known to move ,  and trees to speak .
fillet of a snake that lived in a bog, in the caldron boil and bake; eye of newt, and toe of frog, wool of bat, and tongue of dog, a black snake’s forked tongue, and its cousin’s sting, lizard's leg, and owlet's wing, for a charm of powerful trouble, like a hell-broth, boil and bubble.
it is in ourselves that we are like this or like that.
thanks ,  really ,  because silence is only commendable in a cow’s dried tongue ,  and in a girl who’s not for sale .
i’ll give him some liquor .
there’s no face more sincere than one washed in tears .
no .
well ,  if you don’t ,  then i’m out of here .
you have always been the father of good news .
but the whole story of the night told over ,  and all their minds changed all at the same time ,  shows more witnesses than just images of the mind ,  and grows to something of great lasting; but ,  nevertheless ,  strange and admirable .
o !
have you got permission to go to confession today ?
he shall do this, or else i take back the pardon that i just pronounced here.
here is the money .
but like i said ,  on the night of lammas eve ,  she will be fourteen .
he certainly flattered them both with extravagant compliments .
if you like what you see of the land ,  the profit that’s possible ,  and this rustic life ,  i’ll be your faithful servant ,  and buy the place with your gold right away .
there’s more to it than that . —ganymede !
what hope is that ,  may i ask ?
amen !
benvolio is part of the montague family .
oh wicked wall ,  through which i don’t see any happiness !
maybe you will find a husband without a beard .
you shall be king .
it’s a green - eyed monster that makes fun of the victims it devours .
nor i neither by this heavenly light; i might do it as well in the dark .
he’s not sick ,  my lord ,  but he’s very upset ,  and his problems are serious .
are you afraid?
prepare yourselves, generals.
then put your pipes away in your bag ,  because i'm leaving .
but let me hear the letter of your friend .
is it true ,  sir ,  that the duke of cornwall was killed as they say ?
seyton !
i’m a gentleman ,  sir ,  and my name is conrade .
where’s your lute ?
oh no !
mr .  antonio send you his regards .
you know ,  if you were anyone other than brutus ,  that speech would be your last .
to cut the default from that bankrupt there.
it is truly so .
a friend.
if not ,  what can you do about it ?
arrest him: he’s a friend of the duke of alençon’s .
it was .
mark antony, shall we give sign of battle?
i have told you often, and i’ll tell you again and again, i hate the moor.
i’m not a miracle, sir; but certainly a virgin.
that’s all there is to it .
why are you going crazy over these trashy clothes ?
are you educated ?
the sky frowns and scowls on our army .
and now ,  my friends ,  my courageous and educated friends ,  do me one small favor .
your majesty didn’t present yourself as the king .
set it down awhile .
i don’t think so .
we beg you ,  for your own sake ,  to respect your safety and give up .
all this excitement has made the time fly by .
but i made an oath ,  an oath ,  an oath in heaven .
has my master returned yet ?
you’re absolutely right ,  your highness .
i did ,  sir ,  but it didn’t answer me .
farewell to you ,  and you ,  and you ,  volumnius .
how will you get proof ?
i’ve been crazed with so many miseries that my tongue has tired of lamenting and gone mute .
why only a few courtiers ,  my lord of buckingham ?
you tremble and look pale .
no, sir.
come ,  one for me .
that’s just what he said in the letter .
in my ignorance ,  your skill shall ,  like a star in the darkest night ,  be shown to its fiery advantage indeed .
do what he says ,  william .
great jove ,  guard othello ,  and swell his sail with your own powerful breath ,  that he may bless this bay with his tall ship ,  make love's quick breaths in desdemona's arms ,  give renewed fire to our dead spirits ,  and bring all cyprus comfort !
your lady mother is coming to your bedroom.
how should they ,  when wise men have no eyes ?
come, death, and welcome!
aren’t the playwrights hurting them by making them upstage adult actors ,  which they are going to grow up and become ?
a nice message .
i commend my duty to your lordship.
how it grieved macbeth!
either to die or to swear to avoid the society of men forever .
a sleeve ?
don’t talk back to me .
i’ll tear her to pieces !
no more about drowning, do you hear?
who can blame him for acting crazy ,  when inside he condemns himself for everything he’s done ?
i see regan and goneril in hell—a thousand hissing devils with sizzling red pitchforks come up to them !
he’ll tell you more of the story .
ah ,  revenge !
why ,  you’re sober enough now .
i don’t blame you for praising caesar so; but what agreement do mean you to have with us ?
well ,  if it wasn’t her ,  i don’t know .
you knew, none so well, none so well as you, of my daughter's flight.
wisely ,  and slowly .
damn!
o god!
if you do intend to live ,  then mourn .
hurry .
there is only one hope in it that can do you any good ,  and that is only a kind of bastard hope .
sir ,  you go inside ,  and ,  madam ,  go with him; and go ,  sir paris .
oh ,  fate ,  come ,  come to me ,  with hands as pale as milk .
won’t you be glad to see that rascal dog humiliated ?
don’t let her say i kept you .
the nobles of cyprus whom you invited to dinner are waiting for you .
heigh-ho!—peter quince!
pour in the blood of a female pig that has eaten her nine piglets ,  and throw it into the flame with fat that has dripped from a murderer's gallows .
suffer love !
a particle of dust will turn the balance ,  which pyramus ,  which thisbe ,  is the better .
sirs ,  take up the corpse .
the roman people are fed up with his arrogance already .
yes ,  they are .
and too soon marred are those made young mothers.
this is his sword .
what does that mean?
well ,  that’s a fine answer .
so the life that died with shame lives on with fame .
that is what my master antony says.
is it daytime ?
goodbye .
it’s a measly little cap ,  a dessert crust ,  a plaything ,  a silk pie .
yes ,  why shouldn’t she ?
just look .
leave me ,  friends .
persist with desdemona well ,  and you are sure of it .
well, while i live, i'll fear no other thing so much as keeping nerissa's ring safe.
how did you lose your breath ?
hey!
from top to toe?
i would rip his heart out in public and eat it .
no i won’t ,  even if you were one of the worst demons in hell .
whether your mouth is black or white ,  do - dee ,  dee - dee da .
that’s definitely true ,  my lord .
take some new infection to your eye, and the rank poison of the old love will die.
you’re a man ?
so much for fortinbras .
and my poor  he’s fainted . —my lord ,  my lord !
this is great .
not good ones ,  please .
if you ever loved your dear father — o god !
i like it better than laughing .
for now ,  don’t try to persuade me anymore—i ask you as a friend .
come, knock and enter; and, as soon as we get in, every man start running.
it’s a common  what ?
listen !
what’s the boy malcolm ?
behold, over there, and titinius’ mourning it.
i like him very well .
depending on what we plant—weeds or lettuce ,  or one kind of herb rather than a variety ,  the garden will either be barren and useless ,  or rich and productive .
didn’t you say he lied?
you treat me like a stranger unlike my usual self, when i wonder now how you can behold such sights, and keep the natural ruby of your cheeks, when mine are blanched with fear.
what ,  not a word ?
if only my prayers could inspire that kind of affection !
let us be united in our revenge against him.
lower ,  lower !
no .
no ,  villain ,  but you didn’t work alone .
we understand you’re just doing it for us ,  and we’ll be sure to say so .
this is the very passion of love whose violent property kills itself, and leads the will to desperate undertakings as often as any passion under heaven that afflicts our natures.
only why couldn’t i say ,   " amen "  ?
i will not leave him now until cassio is called to him.
your wife and babies savagely slaughtered.
why did you it?
sometimes i think i’m no smarter than average .
you’re not being a good friend ,  iago ,  if you even  please don’t ask me to tell you .
one face ,  one voice ,  one way of dressing ,  but two people !
please ,  try to act a little more serious ,  or the people in belmont will get the wrong impression about me ,  and your wildness will make me blow my chance with portia .
halt !
take yourself a convent.
oh ,  how strange !
she’s not going to borrow money from them .
lord !
it’s well you offer it behind her back; the wish would other make a noisy house.
what’s wrong ,  cousin ?
he went just left, and certainly in a strange state of upset.
by his dress i can tell he’s my countryman ,  but i don’t recognize him .
he is well paid that is well satisfied; and i am satisfied in delivering you, and therefore, i consider myself well paid: my mind never wanted anything else in payment.
dear father ,  if you caused this terrible storm with your magic powers ,  please put an end to it .
i do believe it was he.
we are now afloat on such a high tide ,  and we must take the opportunity when it presents itself ,  or lose our one lucky chance .
it won’t let you eat, or talk, or sleep; and, if it could affect your face and body so much that it conquers your spirit, i shouldn’t know you, brutus.
is this true ?
farewell and hurry to do your duty .
was that rejection done like cassius ?
not a jot more, my lord.
she will really curse me that romeo has had no news of these events; but i will write to him again in mantua ,  and keep her at my cell until romeo comes to get her; poor living corpse ,  closed in a dead man's tomb !
your false uncle— are you listening to me?
love is so vivid and fantastical that nothing compares to it .
if cassio lives, he has a daily beauty in his life that makes me ugly; and besides, the moor may disclose me to him; i stand there in great danger; no, he must die.
he has killed me, mother.
i’m greedy !
signior ,  it is the moor .
you scolded him in private ?
gentlemanly manners have more sway around here than force does .
i’ve seen you bait and mock this man more than once .
so you want to put a man in your belly .
and how ,  out of your great heap of knowledge ,  will you manage to prove that ?
you sleep ,  and i will hold you in my arms .
poor poisonous fool ,  be angry and bite .
and i am brutus ,  marcus brutus .
no, we’ll slink away at suppertime, disguise ourselves at my house, and return all in an hour.
alas ,  my lord ,  i have been so frightened !
this harms my reputation .
it seems that the sky would pour down stinking ,  boiling tar ,  except that the sea ,  mounting to the cloud’s cheek ,  puts the fire out .
to whom ?
will you hear it again?
indeed, on my sword, indeed.
what satisfaction can you have tonight?
i did love you once .
i’m your daughter .
what else can i say ?
if you are human ,  don’t stand for it .
where should they come ?
do you want to know the effect of what i wrote ?
let’s go !
it is a good hand ,  an open one .
i’ll shut up now .
what great luck the thick lips have ,  if he can get away with this !
now that the wind is favorable ,  let’s board the ship .
is othello angry ?
polite sir ,  let me say one thing .
oh ,  my son ,  my son !
where are they supposed to come ?
i can’t believe you’re my son .
but what’s the upshot of her admiration ?
what promise ,  dear ?
curse your heart for sending me out to catch my death with prancing up and down !
we are all are punished.
kill men in the dark !
absolutely .
there you are lucky too.
makes no difference.
stop ,  daughter .
stop arguing and listen to my plans .
get up ,  i tell you !
yours evermore ,  most dear lady ,  while this brain is in him ,  hamlet .
i’m telling you to make a fist and pound .
as of a man faithful and honorable.
i'll be right behind you.
come ,  stand not amazed at it ,  but go along with me; i will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to kill him .
i tell you i requested that your master cut out the gown ,  but i didn’t ask him to cut it all to pieces .
oh ,  royal caesar !
but you have to .
i’ll have glory in this losing day—more than octavius and mark antony will gain by their foul conquest .
lovely ,  most lovely katherine ,  will you agree to teach a soldier the words that would recommend his love - suit to a gentle heart like yours ?
but don’t be too tame ,  either—let your good sense guide you .
we’re all waiting for the revenge !
whoever’s a real friend should strike me dead .
please don’t say no .
you would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were as abundant as your good fortunes are; and yet, for all i see, they that are sick from over-eating are as sick as those that starve with nothing.
who is so firm, so constant, that this noisy disturbance would not infect his sanity?
and your experience makes you sad .
where have you come from ,  worthy baron ?
o, royal caesar!
if you are a devil, i cannot kill you.
here i am .
ha, ha, ha!
i swear on my honor that we saw and heard hero talking to a brute at her window last night .
are you afraid to be the same man in reality as the one you wish to be ?
kind gentlemen, let's go see poor cassio bandaged.
couldn’t a worm, a poisonous snake, do as much?
carried to colme creek ,  the sacred storehouse of his predecessors ,  and guardian of their bones .
john duke of norfolk ,  walter lord ferrers ,  sir robert brakenbury ,  and sir william brandon .
your lieutenant ,  cassio .
that i will do.
hey, mountain, hey!
what’s that noise?
and i’ve built two chapels where solemn priests sing continually for richard’s soul .
she will be the bond that joins our kingdoms and our hearts .
your sons will be kings ,  even though you will not be king .
since this prize is yours ,  be happy with it ,  and don’t look for a new one .
let your thoughts make up for our imperfections .
no one that i love more than myself.
hey ,  hurry up ,  hurry up !
i could live a thousand years and i wouldn’t be as ready to die as i am now .
three miles from here you can see it coming ,  a moving forest .
madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you are called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in the pantry, and everything is in chaos.
what do you say ?
look at this ,  here is the man—scarred ,  as you can see ,  by traitors .
quiet ,  there !
if you read this ,  caesar ,  you might live .
let’s go greet him when he lands .
can’t you see for yourself ?
if you put me in the stocks you’ll insult him both as a king and as a man .
we should definitely say something to the moor .
i'll contact your man ,  and he shall bring ,  from time to time ,  news to you of every good event that happens here .
why do you pity him ?
i agreed and often i cheated her of her tears, when i spoke of some distressful event i had suffered in my youth.
wake up ! — "  such instigations have often been dropped where i have picked them up .
he’s thirty years old .
so don’t advise me .
meet me later at the fortress .
i’ll find your servant ,  and he’ll update you now and then on your case as it stands here .
yes ,  that’s the way i’ll do it .
well ,  peace be with you ,  sir .
o, are you here, iago?
that’s the beginning of the day we see ,  but i don’t think we’ll see the end of it . —who goes there ?
madam, not yet.
go !
clouds ,  dissolve into rain ,  so that i could say the gods themselves are weeping !
come ,  civil night ,  you sober - suited matron ,  all in black ,  and teach me how to lose a winning match ,  played for a pair of stainless maidens .
a quarrel, hey, already!
quiet !
in a minute!
come, let’s go to the king.
god bless you .
wisdom!
i swear, if i should live a thousand yeas, i never should forget it; 'won’t you, jule?
girls ,  girls !
not in a grave to lay one in, and take another out.
until then ,  i’ll walk around town ,  peruse the markets ,  and gaze upon the buildings ,  and then i’ll return and sleep at the inn .
ask away .
the grief that does not speak builds up softly in the heart, and bids it break.
i came to venice with a number of antonio’s creditors who say he won’t be able to avoid going bankrupt .
how are you ,  my lord ?
here come the lovers ,  full of joy and mirth . — joy ,  gentle friends !
right ,  and well said .
what ,  ho !
duke solinus ,  my husband ,  and both my children—and you two dromios ,  who marked the day of my sons' births with your own—come into the abbey with me for a new christening .
i didn’t have the heart to say no to him .
we both obey ,  and here we give up ourselves ,  without reservation ,  to lay our service freely at your feet ,  to be commanded .
anyway ,  even if he had the money now ,  the jew probably wouldn’t take it .
what’s the matter ,  lieutenant ?
therefore, use none.
we have not disregarded your good advice, which has freely gone along with this affair.
no ,  i know that you’re signior lucentio .
and that’s how i’ll turn her good intentions into a big trap to snag them all .
he’s not very tall ,  but he’s tall enough for his age .
no ,  i’ll go find some ditch to die in .
love goes toward love as schoolboy away from their books; but love goes from love ,  like boys towards school with heavy looks .
i am a gentleman of a company .
o ,  lay me by my mistress' side .
bring us some wine !
your lordship speaks most truly of him.
why are you bothering this poor man !
young though i am ,  i’ve been observing these three blowhards closely .
o traitors, villains!
why ,  now you die as bravely as titinius ,  and may be honored ,  being cato's son .
i know this is a joyful trouble to you, it is still only one.
how is your patient ,  doctor ?
wait a minute ,  jew .
i’ll lock up the doors ,  grab some more ducats ,  and be with you right away .
this is a guy who’s been praised for his honest bluntness ,  and who now insolently pretends to be plainspoken and twists the natural meanings of words .
we will ,  my lord .
the whole world is a stage ,  and all the men and women merely actors .
so ,  there’s the signal to ride .
you’ve heard something you shouldn’t have .
o, don’t be afraid of me.
on tuesday last, a falcon, towering in her pride of place, was hawked at and killed by an owl that usually eats mice.
do you love me?
he hates our sacred nation; and he abuses me, even there where merchants congregate most of the time, insulting me, my bargains, and my well-won success, which he calls interest.
curse you for telling me that, because it has intimidated my better part of man!
it’s a good tragedy ,  very well done .
if he’s nearby ,  i want an explanation .
where is he ?
my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
although many people said she looked like me ,  she was considered beautiful .
you go to juliet, help her ready.
oh ,  what a wonderful son ,  i can impress my mother !
shall i put it plainly ?
antony’s eyes are fiery red from crying .
what were these?
i can stand well enough ,  and i can speak just fine .
tell me if it’s good or bad ,  and i’ll wait for the details .
his spirits are listening to me ,  but i can’t help cursing him anyway .
all these quarrels are about me .
disgusting slave ,  in which any type of goodness won’t take hold ,  being capable of every evil !
this place is full of trouble ,  torments ,  and amazements .
i have promissory notes from florence that i have to deliver .
wasn’t he here ?
how many people who are humble now would be great then ?
no ,  lieutenant—god ,  gentlemen—help—lieutenant—sir ,  montano—help ,  men ! —the night guard is coming !
signior baptista ,  i’m actually in a bit of a hurry .
will you go with me ?
how nice of you !
well ,  anyway ,  goodbye .
is that how it’s going to be ?
but do you mean what you’re saying ?
are you telling me this to make interest good?
if people take what he says ,  fine .
you ,  you ,  yes ,  you !
it’s probably some noble gentleman stopping off in mid - journey ,  thinking to spend the night here .
nobody’s coming ?
no, by no means.
how shall this be done?
now ,  herald ,  have the dead been counted ?
look ,  here comes the duke .
no ,  i don’t know you ,  and my lady didn’t send me to get you ,  and i’m not supposed to tell you to come speak with her ,  and your name is not master cesario ,  and this is not my nose ,  either .
that your interest payments are like jacob’s sheep ?
sir ,  i know i’m not a flatterer .
is that the man you want ?
oh ,  how fortunate that horse is to have antony on him .
i’ll do it with all my heart .
if our eyes were policemen ,  they might capture two thieves at once while we’re embracing .
do you see ?
there are some men that don’t love a dead pig; some that are crazy if they see a cat; and others ,  when they hear the song of the bagpipe ,  cannot hold their urine ,  because sympathy ,  mistress of passion ,  persuades passion to the mood of what it likes or hates .
yes .
should i have answered caius cassius if he asked me ?
it wouldn’t let my soul find its way to air but smothered it inside my gasping body .
is it in the air or the earth ?
in just an hour from now ,  duchess of york ,  i’ll be saluting you as the mother of two beautiful queens .
oh ,  regan ,  she’s torn me apart with unkindness ,  like a vulture ,  right here .
i don’t know.
sword and dagger .
god be with you!
we do not doubt it.
romeo ,  romeo ,  romeo !
what’s this part for ?
do you know them ?
i wish i could give you the little strength that i have .
she will not come .
i want to vomit .
why ,  i can buy me twenty at any market .
when all the uproar is over ,  when the battle has been lost and won .
the jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones, and everything, before you shall lose one drop of blood for me.
invite all my sad captains .
why is the jew waiting ?
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
yes ,  ”  said my husband ,   “ did you fall on your face ?
evil earth, die; end all motion here; and you and romeo lay in a heavy tomb!
what’s your business ?
i wish i could see that man someday !
i won’t bother you .
but you’ll have to catch me !
get out of my sight ,  or i’ll give you what you deserve and spoil caesar’s victory .
you’re not too sharp, casca, and those sparks of life that should be in a roman, you want, or else, you don’t use what you have.
if it please his majesty ,  it is the relaxing time of day with me .
what did you say?
but let him come .
let’s go.
it is, my lord.
he is well paid that is well satisfied; and i am satisfied in delivering you ,  and therefore ,  i consider myself well paid: my mind never wanted anything else in payment .
yes, with a heart as willing as slavery was ever willing of freedom: here's my hand.
how all the other passions fly to the air, as doubtful thoughts, and rash-embraced despair, and shuddering fear, and green-eyed jealousy!
as for antony ,  i’m not interested in his requests .
here is my son ,  sir ,  a poor boy— not a poor boy ,  sir ,  but the rich jew's man ,  that would ,  sir , —as my father shall specify— he has a great infection ,  sir ,  as one would say ,  to serve— indeed the short and the long is ,  i serve the jew ,  and have a desire ,  as my father shall specify— his master and he ,  god save you ,  sir ,  are almost like cousins— to be brief ,  the very truth is that the jew ,  having done me wrong ,  causes me , —as my father ,  being i hope an old man ,  shall frutify to you— i have here a dish of doves that i wish to give you ,  sir; and what i want is— in very brief ,  what he asks is impertinent to myself ,  as you ,  sir ,  shall know from this honest old man; and ,  though i say it ,  though old man ,  yet poor man ,  my father .
gentle cousin ,  let’s go thank him and encourage him .
not stingless too.
we still have time to get all of this done before daybreak .
please smile whenever you’re near me ,  my dearest darling .  ”
now old desire lies in his deathbed, and young affection is longing to be his heir; that beauty for which love groaned and would die, with tender juliet matched now isn’t beautiful.
and i am not guilty of yours.
thank you ,  doctor .
o gentle lady ,  don’t ask me ,  because i am nothing if not critical .
may heaven bless you .
awake, awake!
i don’t care if all the devils in hell crammed together to possess him ,  i still want to speak to him .
how do you like the young german, the duke of saxony's nephew?
the flighty purpose never is understood unless the deed goes with it.
oh ,  he hasn’t ?
who will advance with me ?
good-night; and better health attend his majesty!
three times calpurnia has cried out in her sleep ,   " help ,  oh !
but whatever sorrow can come ,  it cannot equal the exchange of joy that one short minute in her sight gives me .
give me my amour.
no, truly, sir; not a penny.
what should i pay you ?
hang out ?  ”  who do you think we are ,  musicians in a band ?
will the king hear this piece of work?
she was here just now .
i am sorry that i was wrong about him .
sweet now, silence!
i believe it completely .
by mary, i’ll teach you.
but don’t be easily won over .
he didn’t know how to stop it .
all my pretty little children ?
his mistake was hardly worth punishing him for in the first place—though in wartime it is sometimes necessary to make examples out of even the best soldiers .
but he didn’t do it .
gloucester’s eyes ?
yes, sir, that soaks up the king's face, his rewards, his authorities.
by mary, sir, here's my intention:, and i believe it is a trick of protection.
i didn’t kill lysander .
and i am not guilty of yours .
i was engaged to her, my lord, before i saw hermia.
why do you address me by his name?
me ,  sir ?
i never gave him any token of romantic love .
you did—not just once or twice ,  but twenty times .
no, iago, i'll see before i doubt; when i doubt, i’ll need proof; and on the proof, there is no more but this, to hell with love or jealousy at once!
come, go with me.
i really don’t know .
no ,  indeed ,  even if you had your eyes ,  you might not know me: it is a wise father that knows his own child .
look how politely it’s pointing you to a place that’s farther away .
what is it you demand?
all right !  ”  it’s not fine ,  and i’m not all right !
i cannot speak enough of this contentment; it stops me here; it is too joyful .
we will go quickly.
are you going?
now ,  if you occupy some place in the list of men that isn’t down at the very bottom ,  tell me .
no, not for venice.
i could marry you there ,  gentle hermia ,  where the strict laws of athens can’t touch us .
no ,  not a chance .
no ,  god's my judge ,  the clerk will never grow a beard that took it .
i would’ve been a sore king then .
i don’t love you ,  so stop following me .
as good a wife as she is ,  that’s how good a husband i am to you .
i do ,  mark antony .
yes ,  here it is .
here's our chief guest.
i won’t be a soldier anymore .
ah, good demetrius, will you give him to me?
what a head i’ve got !
absolutely—so long as he gets the girl .
here .
my lord, he has of late made many offers of his affection to me.
i don’t know .
fare you well .
gentlemen ,  we won’t stay here and anger you further .
o ,  she was evil !
you know that i used to believe in epicurus and his disregard for omens .
i’ll wait on them with all respect and duty .
she's not fourteen .
he’s already done so .
she’s gone .
follow my mother .
you smiled ,  instilled with strength from heaven ,  when i have covered the sea with salty tears ,  groaning under my load ,  which raised in me a new strength ,  to put with whatever should follow .
i was hurt under your arm .
what ,  from myself ?
claudius !
who is nothing to you in this kind of merry joking ,  so you may continue and still laugh at nothing .
this isn’t a good moment for jokes—save them till a happier time .
i’ve practiced stoicism with as much devotion as you ,  but i still couldn’t bear this news like you do .
in understanding, how like a god!
are you alive?
a thing for me !
can we have some water please here ? — come and wash ,  kate ,  make yourself at home .
no sound ,  no word ?
shall i go get your nightgown ?
being ready is everything .
you are three men of sin, whom destiny, that has the power over this lower world and what is in it,—has caused the never-satisfied sea to spit up you; and on this island where man doesn’t live, you among men being most unfit to live.
you don’t use your knowledge effectively ,  if you give into unexpected evil events .
things that grow are not ripe until it’s their season to be ripe, so i, being young, have not been ripened in reason, and touching the point of human skill now, reason has become the commander of my will, and it leads me to your eyes, where i see love's stories, written in love's richest book.
don’t try to find out more .
may i only do well in these dangerous battles if my intention to repent and prosper is sincere !
i beg you, sir, have patience.
hear the noble antony .
no–the law goes further: if anyone born in ephesus is seen in syracuse’s marketplaces or if anyone born in syracuse comes to ephesus ,  that man dies ,  and his possessions will be confiscated by the duke ,  unless he can raise a thousand marks to pay the penalty and ransom himself .
hamlet ,  this pearl is your ,  here's to your health .
stop it ,  i order you .
what further pain must i endure in my old age ?
now he denies it faintly and laughs it out .
i appreciate your concern.
well ,  there they are .
well ,  my friends ,  you’ve got to admit that if you scare the living daylights out of the ladies ,  they’d have no choice but to execute us .
i’d rather die in a ditch in egypt ,  and make it my gentle grave .
i am not treacherous .
if i can bear that pain ,  then i can bear my husband’s secrets .
you can’t see the future .
banquo and donalbain!
a liberal hand.
god save the king !
dusk and all night long sleeps in peace .
oh ,  please be quiet .
let’s go gather our jewels and money .
i say you’re not .
were you dreaming, lucius, that you cried out like that?
don’t believe it.
right away, good nurse!
mother ,  goodnight .
and then again ,  it’s not so good ,  but only so - so .
then tell what you know about all of this.
that young man who was just here .
who could refrain ,  that had a heart to love ,  and in that heart courage to make his love known ?
but ,  for your private satisfaction ,  because i love you ,  i’ll let you know .
i could drink hot blood and do such terrible deeds that people would tremble even in the daylight .
give me a torch .
do it immediately ,  or all your previous services to me were accidental ,  without purpose .
the wind you’re talking about is blowing us off our course .
where are your leather apron and your ruler ?
come in and give some help.
i’ll do everything she wants me to do .
follow me in this joke now until you have worn out your shoe; that ,  when the single sole of it is worn ,  the joke may remain ,  after the wearing ,  sole singular .
i beg you ,  tell the truth .
too bad about the son !
i cannot speak enough of this contentment; it stops me here; it is too joyful.
things at the worst will cease, or else return to the way they were before.
disobedient wretch!
christ ,  it’s a disaster .
o, what a beast was i to scold him!
stephano is my name, and i bring word that my mistress will be here at belmont before the break of day; she wanders about by holy crosses, where she kneels and prays for happy marriage hours.
i wouldn’t dare ?
well ,  we’ll stop ,  then .
what ?
don’t stay to question what happened ,  because the guard is coming .
no ,  that would be a pity; i would beg you rather to put on your boldest face of happiness ,  because we have friends that offer merriment .
what, are you crazy?
o ,  i am attacked ,  undone by villains !
awaken the memory of those valiant ancestors and with your own powerful arm make their deeds live again .
if then that friend demands why brutus rose against caesar ,  this is my answer , —not that i loved caesar less ,  but that i loved rome more .
wickedness!
no, i say it is very contemptible, and begin to find myself fooled by it.
oh yes ,  sir ,  i have often been to pisa—pisa ,  city of wise men .
how is it now !
you foolish madman ,  listen to me for a moment .
but, alas, caesar must bleed for it!
plain and simple loyalty doesn’t make anyone act phony .
by heaven ,  he echoes me ,  as if there were some monster in his thoughts too hideous to be shown .
what are you fighting about ?
you counterfeit, you puppet, you!
come, go aside with me; i will leave so i can equip me with some swift means of death for the beautiful devil.
but like a misbehaved ,  sullen girl ,  you’re whining about your bad luck and your love .
behold, here i lie, never to rise again.
will he tell us what this show meant ?
three times ,  and the hedgehog whined once .
our masquerade mates are waiting for us .
what would he do if he had the motive and the cue for passion that i have?
what, is brutus sick, and will he steal out of his wholesome bed to challenge the evil diseases of the night, and tempt the thick and unclean air to add to his sickness?
let’s go ,  my good men !
curse my heart ,  but i pity the man .
and a good lady, and a wise and virtuous lady.
but that’s not how you’re going to be .
is tomorrow the 15th of march ,  boy ?
then leave her ,  sir .
honest to god ,  where’s the sexton ?
yes ,  right away .
everyone says you can’t make up your mind .
i’ll be back quicker than you can think a thought .
i’m not that stupid .
yes, or any show that you'll show him.
now, until dawn, each fairy wander through this house.
it is truly so.
i beg your pardon ,  except for the widow dido .
you’re a fellow of a good respect; your life has some smack of honor in it .
good enobarbus ,  consider yourself my guest as long as you’re here .
yes ,  but how he adores mark antony !
here .
flute ,  you must take the role of thisbe .
now i’ve said it twice .
regarding this vision here ,  it is an honest ghost ,  that i can tell you .
sir, don’t grieve; you are welcome nevertheless.
no, for me now.
if he doesn’t love her, and he’s not gone crazy because of love, let me be no assistant for a state, but be a farmer and horse carter.
i’ll do that .
why ,  lady !
my treasure has no boundaries, just like the sea, my love is as deep as the sea; the more i give to you, the more i have, for both my love and the sea are infinite.
only you don’t speak to me .
oh ,  yes ,  we could ,  sir .
who the hell are you?
hey ,  hey !
very much so .
oh ,  deadly sin !
well ,  go home .
what a sigh that is!
this is a miracle ,  if you talk of miracles .
oh ,  to think that the same body that once ruled the world could now patch up a wall !
her father loved me ,  often invited me; still questioned me the story of my life ,  from year to year ,  the battles ,  sieges ,  fortunes ,  that i have been in .
doesn’t she think i’m an old murderer ,  now i have stained the beginning of our joy with blood from a close relative ?
disgustingly filthy rumors are circulating .
is that you ,  diomedes ?
when devils are about to commit their biggest sins they put on their most heavenly faces ,  just like i’m doing now .
on my knees ,  what does your speech mean ?
but ,  break my heart ,  for i must be silent !
how lush and lusty the grass looks!
who is it that cried ?
o, there has been a lot of bashing of brains going on.
you desperate sea captain, now run your sea-sick weary ship onto the dashing rocks all at once!
damn it ,  before he fell down ,  when he thought the common herd was glad he had refused the crown ,  he opened his shirt ,  and offered to cut his throat .
pick up her bed and carry her ladies out of the tomb .
my sons edward and clarence !
this is old ninny's tomb .
caesar and lepidus are organizing their military operation .
my dear - loved cousin ,  and my dearer lord ?
the lady is waking up .
look ,  here he comes .
not of killing him ,  because i have a warrant for it ,  but of being damned for killing him ,  which no warrant can protect me from .
the nephew to old norway ,  fortinbras .
my life on her faith in me!
nurse ,  will you come with me to my closet and help me pick out the clothes and the jewelry i’ll need to wear tomorrow ?
yes ,  on the front .
my falcon is now hungry and unfed and must not be given enough to eat until she comes to me ,  for if her hunger is satisfied ,  she’ll pay no attention to the bait .
god bless you ,  sir .
i’ve spent most of my money ,  and tonight i got beaten up .
well ,  well ,  well .
give me some comfort, nurse.
your answers are too shallow and too hasty .
listen ,  more knocking .
the black rooster, so black of hue, with orange-tawny bill, the thrush with his note so true, the wren with little quill.
in one voyage, claribel found her husband at tunis, and ferdinand, her brother, found a wife where he himself was lost; prospero found his dukedom in a poor island; and all of us found ourselves, when no man was in his right minds.
we’re glad to see you .
shame on you !  ,  shame on you !  !
yes, nurse; what of that?
mantua .
there's two or three of us who have seen strange sights.
do you know me ?
and you can do poor things that lead to rich results .
come, antony and young octavius, come, revenge yourselves alone on cassius, because cassius is weary of the world, hated by a friend he loves; threatened by his brother; attacked like a slave; all his faults noted, set in a note-book, learned and memorized by heart, to throw back into my face.
oh ,  how ripe your lips are ,  those kissing cherries grow tempting !
madam ,  i’m here .
she looks like she’s washing her hands .
o, vengeance!
let’s take up the best positions we can in the valleys .
just you wait .
if things go well ,  bring the crowd to  i’m off .
i’ll have his heart ,  if he defaults; because ,  if he were out of business in venice ,  i can make whatever deals i want to .
i shouldn’t make you do more than you’re able .
if you can leave your body so easily ,  then the touch of death is like a lover’s pinch ,  which hurts but is desired .
women are sex machines below the waist ,  though they’re chaste up above .
within the next three days i want to hear you tell me that cassio’s dead .
hello !
how can you blame her ,  a tender young maiden still given to virgin blushes ,  for objecting to having a blind ,  naked boy appear before her ?
i wish your ladyship all my heart's content .
i wish she’d never let you come .
don’t be her maid, since she is so jealous.
why do you want to do that ,  my lord ?
he’s married ,  madam .
snakes shed their skin there ,  and the shed skin is wide enough to wrap a fairy in .
never .
still i insisted; still you didn’t answer ,  but ,  with an angry wave of your hand ,  you gave me a sign to leave you .
please forgive me as i forgive you ,  hamlet .
i wish i could answer this comfort with a similar one !
get going, then, robin, make the night darker; cover the stars in the sky with drooping fog, as black as acheron, and lead these testy rivals so astray that they will not come within another's way.
look what a wardrobe is here for you !
sir ,  you need a drink .
is it four o'clock ?
besides ,  you’ve gotten unreliable .
don’t let your ears hate what i’m going to say forever ,  which will hit them with the heaviest sound that they have ever heard .
no ,  he was wicked and vile .
you will feel the loss ,  but the man you weep for will feel nothing .
swear .
what do you say, hermia?
oh ,  kent ,  what could i ever do to become as good as you are ?
madam ,  please let me see your face .
mine ,  too .
shall any other man be killed besides caesar?
they’re louder than the storm or us sailors .
swear?
all is lost !
this one ,  and i will give her to you .
what does  you’d have a great hairstyle if you had .
definitely a tailor ,  sir .
my name is roderigo .
they said they were acting for you .
angry enough to run away .
any minute .
here .
i’m not busy now ,  nervous daughter .
she’s more cunning than anyone can imagine .
sweet doctor, you shall be my lover: when i am absent, then you can lie with my wife.
how short am i ?
but tell me why didn’t you take action against these things, so full of crime and punishable by death, as you mainly were upset by concern for your safety, wisdom, if nothing else.
what about that?
she hangs around me all the time .
what time is it ?
i scolded you for obsessing about her ,  not for loving her ,  my student .
look how she leans her hand on her cheek .
i am now so far stepped in blood that, if i don’t wade in it any more, it doesn’t matter if i am getting out of it or going over it.
by mary ,  our play is—the most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of pyramus and thisbe .
will you come to bed ,  my lord ?
who's there, in the name of the devil?
it would be better to die that way than to die from being mocked ,  which is as bad as being killed by tickling .
or walk either .
you most lying slave ,  whom beatings may move ,  not kindness !
you can’t eat capons that way.
help, ho!
nothing .
and haven’t we got affections, desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
jacob didn’t have any control over what happened .
in law ,  what plea is so tainted and corrupt that ,  being delivered with a gracious voice ,  obscures the evil underneath ?
hail ,  brave friend !
trebonius when to act, because, look, brutus, he’s taking mark antony out of the way.
oh ,  my antonio !
i want to drink your health .
you have to read us the will ,  caesar’s will .
enter the castle, sir.
if your highness is willing ,  take revenge on him for that—because i know you’re brave enough ,  i don’t dare to— that’s for sure .
why have you collapsed ?
the king ,  his brother ,  and your brother are all waiting there in a crazed state of mind ,  and the rest are grieving over them ,  sad and astonished .
come here ,  ventidius .
we shall have old swearing that they gave the rings away to men; but we'll confront them ,  and outswear them too .
it is a very excited flood; i cannot, between the sky and the land, see a sail.
plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
and just in time ,  here he comes with sir richard ratcliffe .
so you are obliged to revenge, when you shall hear me.
but i surrender all this magic now ,  when i’ve summoned some heavenly music to cast a spell ,  as i’m doing now ,  i’ll break my staff and bury it far underground ,  and throw my book of magic spells deeper into the sea than any anchor ever sank .
please go to him ,  my friend .
you’re stripped of your power and your command ,  and cassio will govern cyprus .
are you going ?
it is neither here nor there.
we’ll go forward with you and meet them at philippi .
help !
he stole it from me .
i’m happy about that .
but is he often like this ?
in suicide ,  gods allow tyrants to be defeated .
who are all these people ?
my lord, fair helena told me of their running away, and why they ran here to this forest; and in fury, i followed them here, fair helena, in love, following me.
news ,  friends; our wars are done ,  the turks are drowned .
a cup closed in my true love's hand ?
my lord ,  i’ll do it right away .
let them put fear in your heart .
romeo must not live .
but ,  hang on !
at mine own house ,  good lady .
there’s justice in heaven after all !
look !
this was an enterprise, sir, that jacob worked for; a thing that was not in his power to bring to pass, but swayed and fashioned by the hand of heaven.
faith ,  i don’t know what to say .
come on ,  sweet audrey .
how did you sleep ,  my lord ?
moonshine and lion are left to bury the dead.
those of you who are young and active ,  i beg you to follow them and keep them from doing the crazy things their guilt might push them to do .
i wonder if you’d be so good ,  you lousy ,  rotten villain ,  to grant my wish and my request and gratify me ,  see ,  by eating this leek .
sir ,  for your hurts ,  i myself will be your surgeon .
that’s the way great men ought to endure great losses .
have you heard this ,  cassio ?
if you have any pity ,  grace ,  or manners ,  you would not make me such an argument .
you remember that time i sat on a big rock by the ocean, and heard a mermaid, on a dolphin's back, singing such a sweet and melodious song that the rough sea became calm when it heard it, and certain stars shot madly out of their orbits to hear the sea-maid's music?
you take me for a sponge ,  my lord ?
will you think so ?
i smile and think ,   “ thank goodness the wind doesn’t flatter me: it’s like a councilor who makes me feel what i’m really made of .  ”  adversity can have its benefits—like the ugly ,  poisonous  i wouldn’t change my situation for anything .
we must not now displease him.
here at the door; i beg you ,  call them in .
do you have news from verona ! —what is it ,  balthasar ?
that’s foolish .
you are welcome.
you’d be a pitiful bird .
you call this a scale ?
i have no idea how .
okay .
all this ”  ?
the hand of death has taken him .
alright ,  then i’ll see you at philippi .
goodbye, my lord.
she has a body ,  not a life .
all's well.
the wind is filling your ship’s sail ,  and they’re waiting for you .
don’t shed any blood ,  or cut less or more than exactly a pound of flesh .
don’t stay to answer me—get going .
villainous whore !
welcome ,  good cambio .
only antony was at fault .
but go ahead and charm her ,  gentle paris; make her love you .
her name is margery ,  indeed: i'll swear ,  if you are launcelot ,  you are my own flesh and blood .
they’re overdoing it .
i won’t be made a soft and dull-eyed fool, to shake my head, give in, and sigh, and surrender to christian intercessors.
as a friend or an enemy?
must i endure all this ?
i have not deserved this.
come, my lord; and, as we fly, tell me how it happened this night that i was found here sleeping on the ground with these mortals.
i’m at your service ,  madam .
i scarcely knew you, uncle; there lies your niece, whose breath, indeed, these hands have just stopped.
what’s amazing is how long he lasted .
the devil is at my elbow and tempts me ,  saying to me ,   “ gobbo ,  launcelot gobbo ,  good launcelot ”  or  “ good gobbo ”  or  “ good launcelot gobbo ,  use your legs ,  get going ,  run away .  ”  my conscience says ,   “ no; be careful ,  honest launcelot ,  be careful ,  honest gobbo ”  or ,  as i said before ,   “ honest launcelot gobbo ,  don’t run; scorn running with your heels .  ”  well ,  the most courageous devil tells me to pack .
yes ,  and i’ll give it to him for free .
you are right.
merciful heaven!
what a three times two ass i was ,  to take this drunkard for a god ,  and worship this dull fool !
he will stay until you come .
if there are any ,  speak ,  because i have offended him .
no ,  let’s follow him .
if you could ,  doctor ,  analyze the urine of my land ,  find her disease ,  and purge it to a sound and former health ,  i would praise you to the very echo ,  that should praise again .
even if these men have escaped the law and punishment at home ,  they cannot escape god .
tomorrow’s a good day .
just the weathervane moving .
what did you do that for ?
write down  “ master gentleman conrade .  ” —gentlemen ,  are you good christians ,  and do you serve god ?
what else ?
oh ,  i wish i could make a  my soul is calling out my name .
this fight will decide who dies .
write to him immediately .
why don’t you go off to church dancing one way ,  and come home dancing another way ?
i am very proud ,  revengeful ,  ambitious ,  with more offenses at my command than i have thoughts to put them in ,  imagination to give them shape ,  or time to commit them in .
i kill my husband dead a second time when second husband kisses me in bed.
a basting .
he pretended to be some kind of sorcerer ,  and he gazed in my eyes and took my pulse .
by jesus, a very good blade!
goodbye, master; goodbye, goodbye!
you sun - burned reapers ,  tired of august ,  come here from the rows you have plowed and be happy: make it a holiday: put on your rye - straw hats ,  and meet every one pf these fresh nymphs in country dancing .
he had no patience .
i’ve heard too much already, because your words and actions don’t agree with each other.
stay !
armed ,  my lord .
now ,  don’t forget ,  you promised me something .
but i still believe the source and beginning of his grief began with rejected love.
i predict he comes to tell me of the players, listen.
eighty dollars !
we shouldn’t have too big a celebration—we can invite a friend or two .
even if you’re not a traitor ,  you’re going to look like one if you run away .
she will not .
that’s why you sleep so soundly .
you tie up horses by their heads ,  dogs and bears by their necks ,  monkeys by their waists ,  and humans by their legs .
i will ,  my lord .
but whenever you feel a larger pain ,  the smaller one disappears .
my library was a large enough dukedom for me .
fetch me my rapier, boy.
ah ,  no .
thank you ,  and god bless you for your hospitality .
them brothers ,  friends ,  and countrymen .
within three hours juliet will wake up .
some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrust upon them .
thrift, thrift, horatio!
you’d better think up a way to defend yourself .
how did you two get separated ?
no ,  by our lady ,  i’m not such a fool to think what i please ,  and i don’t please to think what i can ,  and in fact i cannot think ,  even if i could think my heart right past thinking ,  that you are in love or that you will be in love or even that you can be in love .
o villainy!
herein i will teach you how you shall bid god to reward us for your pains ,  and thank us for your trouble .
goodbye ,  jessica .
do you know fluellen ?
maybe she can’t meet him .
what miserable praise have you for her that's ugly and foolish?
if you say one more word ,  i’ll punish you ,  maybe even hate you .
i am afraid, standing in this night, that all this is only a dream, too promising and sweet to be real.
my father is not dead, is all you’re saying.
we arrived here on this island: and here i, your schoolmaster, have made you grow more than other princes can, who have more time for worthless hours, and tutors that are not as careful.
no ,  i do remember .
in that case it’s your imagination that’s interesting ,  not the play .
my lord ,  i wish that thursday were tomorrow .
i’m completely lost .
where the bee sucks ,  there suck i: in a flower’s bell i lie; there i sleep when owls cry .
most miserable hour that time ever saw in lasting work of his travels!
i forgot about the reward .
he had his helmet visor up .
it’s your job in life to kill the innocent ?
for you, mistress, save you your labor.
at this same ancient feast of capulet's ,  the fair rosaline whom you love so much will have supper; with all the admired beauties of verona .
on monday morning ,  it was true indeed .
well ,  susan died and is with god .
sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what does my love say?
if you leave me so depressed, you do me wrong.
an earnest oath from the king, as england was his faithful ally, as love between them might flourish like the palm tree, as peace should still wear her wheaten garland and stand like a comma between their friendships, and many “as-es” like that of great emotion, that, on the view and knowledge of these contents, without further discussion, more or less, he should the bearers put to sudden death, not even allowing time for confession and penance.
there will be no lecture .
and get out of my sight !
his absence, sir, means he didn’t keep his promise.
you can be a eunuch ,  but i’ll be mute .
o ,  answer me !
what is logical ,  then ,  my lord ?
there is some grudge between them; it’s not proper that they are alone .
i wish you had never seen him !
mistress ,  think about your end—beware of your death !
i’ll tell him of fair hermia's flight; then tomorrow night ,  he will pursue her to the forest ,  and ,  even if he just thanks me for this knowledge ,  it is sweet payment .
what is the matter?
get out of my sight .
wake up the montagues .
poison ,  i see ,  has been the cause of his death .
i ask you ,  if you have a grudge against me ,  to kill me now ,  while your stained hands still reek of blood .
let’s hear it ,  sweet bottom .
just now ,  my lord .
do you even get what i’m saying ?
it is a strange truth .
you call it my  “  don’t you know ?
you will listen to me .
be eloquent on my behalf .
do whatever you want ,  and i’ll say your insults are just a bad mood .
may the gods destroy you !
a jealous woman’s poisonous ranting is worse than the bite of a rabid dog .
o ,  what other favor can i do for you than to end the youth of your enemy with the same hand that cut your youth half ?
i’ve got no food to give you .
do you really think so ?
that’s not holy ,  it’s heresy .
i came from corinth ,  your highness .
and i’ll go to bed at noon .
i don’t mean he’s
you rogue!
do so: laziness i inherited teaches me to go down ,  oh !
it shall be seven o'clock before i get on my horse .
come ,  death ,  and welcome !
he has legs like a man ,  and his fins look like arms !
they only pretend, pretend to poison, no offense in the world.
oh ,  your report is too poetic ,  but it sounds so true !
i wish the lightning had burned up all those logs that you’ve been ordered to stack !
i’ve got news ,  boys ,  the war’s over !
what is it ?
we’re still just beginners when it comes to crime .
all right ,  i’ll stop .
i would rather be a country serving maid than a great queen if it meant i could escape your scorn and constant harassment .
why  “ let it strike ”  ?
i’m not sick if you’ve prepared some honorable exploit for me .
me either: i’m wide awake.
do you think alexander the great looked like this in the earth ?
there is no indication of the mighty army that surrounds them in his expression ,  nor has the long ,  sleepless night robbed his face of an ounce of color .
farewell .
how all the other passions fly to the air ,  as doubtful thoughts ,  and rash - embraced despair ,  and shuddering fear ,  and green - eyed jealousy !
i beg you, whose joints move easier than mine to follow them swiftly and stop them from what this vision may now provoke them to do.
cursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
and mustardseed !
then ,  venom ,  do your work .
to relate the details would be, on the numbers of these murdered deer, to add to your own death.
i heard you do a speech once, but it was never acted, or if it was, not more than once, for the play, i remember, didn’t please the crowd, it was caviar to the particular, but it was, as i took it, and others, whose judgments in such matters far exceed mine, an excellent play, well organized in the scenes, set down with as much modesty as skill.
he has killed me ,  mother .
don’t give up yet .
fairies, let’s go; i have sworn not to go to his bed or to keep his company.
peace !
the question of his death is recorded on rolls in the capitol ,  his glory not made thin ,  where he was worthy; nor are his offenses recorded ,  for which he suffered death .
oh god ! —oh nurse ,  how can this be stopped ?
it said ,   “ love me and don’t leave me .  ”  how can you talk about the quality of the poem or the value of the ring ?
you lie .
that’s no lie .
damn my suspicious thoughts !
if i let him go ,  i’ll have to pay his bail fees myself .
let all the soldiers come down.
he was a merry man, took up the child.
if you'll come to supper tonight ,  you may; if you will not ,  come when you are next ready to .
he says she has no equal .
i remember .
we are free .
that is done too, sir, only 'cover' is the word.
take yourself a convent .
my lord ,  i'll tell my lady you will come .
i’m only trying to keep the peace .
what man is that with blood all over him?
be wise when you criticize me and keep your minds alert so you can judge me fairly .
who are you ,  moaning in the hut like that ?
therefore my son is embedded in the ooze; and i'll seek him deeper than a piece of lead ever measured how deep the water is ,  and i will lie there with him in the mud .
i see you’re all eaten up with emotion .
good morning ,  prince; good morning ,  claudio .
how am i, then, a villain to advise cassio to this parallel course, directly to his good?
but by the grace of god ,  she’s mine .
and ,  kate ,  when france is mine and i am yours ,  then france is yours and you are mine .
this is a nasty tune too: but here's my comfort.
ding ,  dong ,  bell .
the general and his wife are talking about it; and she strongly speaks up for you .
how long do you intend to stay within this forest?
first of all ,  pyramus has to take out a sword to kill himself ,  which the ladies in the audience won’t be able to stand .
but tell me ,  how is your cousin ?
who does it, then?
did he confess it ?
now, infidel, i have you at a disadvantage.
farewell to the plumed forces and the big wars that make ambition a virtue!
when you see him walking by here (as i’ll make sure he does between twelve and one) you can nab him .
were it good ?
some whiskey ,  hello !
or did the letter make him emotional somehow ,  and this is the first time he’s done it ?
but the devil that tempted you gave you no reason why you should commit treason other than to win the name of traitor .
don’t try my patience and push me too hard ,  because the sight of you makes me sick .
examples ,  as obvious as dirt ,  urge me .
but ,  on .
your head is as full of fights as an egg is full of yolk ,  but your head has been beaten like scrambled eggs from so much fighting .
set a huge mountain between my heart and tongue!
aside.
cheer up .
say  “ better .  ”  here comes one of capulet’s relatives .
i don’t desire any more .
and the right valiant banquo was out too late, whom, you may say, if it please you, was killed by fleance, because fleance fled.
and so ,  my words and thoughts will be at odds .
sure i can ,  father .
well ,  okay . —i swear to god ,  both their stories match .
you’re right ,  that’s how it is .
that’s all .
you’re a traveler .
what would you have ,  desdemona ?
hot ,  hot and moist .
but not for long; charles will take care of everything .
now go !
then go to work.
farewell, my coz.
you’re not really my daughter ,  but i still have one daughter left .
news, friends; our wars are done, the turks are drowned.
did you say with cassio?
i will listen very carefully .
i wish your undertaking today may thrive.
my good lysander !
don’t ask me what i know .
i really needed blessing ,  and the  " amen "  stuck in my throat .
why, so i can, sir, but i won’t now.
it shall go to the barber's, to be cut with your beard.
be careful; be perfect; goodbye.
here is a place reserved ,  sir .
even so great men should endure great losses .
only why stands macbeth in this way amazedly ?
nothing is good ,  i see ,  without respect: i think it sounds much sweeter at night than by day .
murder!
poor bird !
here, quite confused by this mutiny.
am i the master here or you?
yes ,  sir ,  and i’ll leave when you ask me to .
whose house?
when it is lit ,  come back and call me here .
what sorrow craves to know me at my hand ,  that i don’t know yet ?
you wouldn’t know enough to be afraid of traps .
from top to toe ?
here ,  take away the dish .
lovers and madmen have such busy brains ,  such ability to shape fantasies ,  that they catch more than cool reason ever understands .
but ,  as i said ,  in the middle of july ,  she’ll be fourteen; that she will ,  by mary; i remember it well .
it won’t last .
it’s nine o'clock !
jailer ,  watch out for this one .
where should i go ?
come on ,  don’t quarrel with us ,  good old man .
until then ,  my noble friend ,  think about this: i’d rather be a poor villager than call myself a citizen of rome under the hard conditions that this time is likely to put us through .
he uses his clownishness to disguise his deadly wit .
this is my treasurer .
it’s nearly dinner time ,  and the night’s going to be wasted .
you know what ,  my lord ?
how did you get better ?
come on ,  you turtle !
please let me know your plan ,  bassanio .
away with the good stools ,  remove the china closet ,  look to the plate .
are these wind instruments ?
there is no written in this news that makes them believable.
be quiet ,  boy ,  or you’ll lose your mind .
why, there was a crown offered to him, and when it was offered to him, he pushed it away with the back of his hand, like this, and then the people started shouting.
it is the wittiest partition that ever i heard speak, my lord.
what’s he talking about ?
if he will grant me conquered egypt ,  so that i may give it to my son ,  i will kneel to him with thanks .
so you shall hear of carnal ,  bloody and unnatural acts ,  of accidental judgments ,  casual slaughters ,  of deaths planned by cunning and false causes ,  and ,  in this result ,  mistaken motives fallen on the planners' heads .
how many noblemen would be weeded out and would become peasants ?
say he’s sick.
they’re lying over there ,  and the poor old man ,  their father ,  weeps so piteously over them that the whole audience has joined him in grieving .
go then; for it’s useless to look for him here when he intends not to be found.
goodbye ,  then .
i don’t know why he’s come here .
unfortunately ,  i love myself .
when hamlet returns ,  he shall know you’re home .
if only that were all it is— it is ,  i promise .
wickedness !
get out of my sight ! —dear cesario ,  please don’t be offended . —get out of here ,  you barbarian !
why do you storm so?
call help.
good news ,  friends .
my lord ,  i will help you ,  even if it means i have to stay awake for ten nights straight .
must i bite ?
oh scotland ,  scotland !
all the most beautiful paintings are black when compared to rosalind .
let’s have explicit contracts drawn up to ensure that both sides keep their promises .
to the field !
his words were, “goodbye, mistress,” nothing else.
o ,  she teaches the torches to burn bright !
i ask you ,  if you’ve kept this a secret ,  keep doing so .
please, don’t turn me around so much: my stomach is upset.
are you sure of that ?
haven’t you got enough love to be patient with me, when that sudden mood which my mother gave me makes me forgetful?
made it for me ?
the harvest comes shortly after that .
casca ,  i can tell by your voice .
my good king ,  surprise the english and let them know what kind of kingdom you rule over .
my lord ?
it’s dangerous out there .
be content .
that’s good advice .
when we were alone ,  we agreed that in public she would go on being unpleasant .
this bodiless creation is very cunning in imagination.
ever since the duke’s messenger visited olivia ,  she’s been upset .
men who risk everything hope to make profits .
o piteous spectacle!
the day is well on its way .
you stupid fool !
in the name of something holy, sir, why stand you here in this strange stare?
but let me go to my fortune and the chests.
your name, please, friend?
how did you escape ?
what then?
madam ,  here comes your husband .
he's a traitor.
thanks to your majesty .
why do you hide these things ?
no remedy, my lord, when walls are so willful to hear without warning.
with all my heart my staff already know my mind, and will report to you and jessica in place of lord bassanio and myself.
damn it ,  sir ,  to bid my old master ,  the jew ,  to come to supper tonight with my new master ,  the christian .
yes ,  that’s quite likely .
if i let myself do what i yearn to ,  i’d rip the flesh off your bones .
i swam ashore like a duck .
absolutely not .
if he can keep it ,  he’ll be set forever .
of course ,  they won’t believe you without proof .
heaven does truly know it .
so order the armies to rest ,  and let’s go home to share the glories of this happy day .
may sweet repose and rest come to your heart such as that is within my breast!
the rest of the dead are princes ,  barons ,  lords ,  knights ,  squires ,  and gentlemen of birth and rank .
romeo’s a dishcloth compared to him .
i am willing to fight you if i must .
you have slept well; awake !
i feel this pinprick .
the next more easy ,  for use can almost change what is natural ,  and can either curb the devil or throw him out with wondrous effectiveness .
god forbid that i snatch the crown from him .
o, horrible!
so let me hear what you have to say .
it’s not offensive, is it?
no, when light-winged toys of feathered cupid blind my knowing and usual instruments of sight with unruly dullness, that if my games corrupt and stain my work, let housewives make a skillet of my helmet, and all indignities and base adversities make a boil of my reputation!
but who’s coming here?
the best plays are only shadows ,  and the worst are no worse ,  if imagination can fill in the gaps .
i think i can do that .
scurvy knave!
don’t be disturbed by my weakness.
our land forces have bravely stood firm .
then i must think you wouldn’t want it .
get to bed .
that would make anyone cry enough to water his garden with his tears .
we can’t go on with this plan .
i see an angel that sees them.
then music is sounds as the trumpets when true subjects bow to a new - crowned king; music is those sweet sounds at sunrise that creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear and summon him to marriage .
i don’t know what its intentions are, but, in the plainness and freedom of my opinion, this foretells some strange eruption to our state.
stop eating ?
only yesterday the word of caesar might have stood against the world .
well ,  sir ,  it’s true it came soon after .
we are wicked men, all, believe none of us.
it is faded ,  and rather like a dream than a definite memory in my mind .
i do the wrong and am the first to start quarrels .
everyone’s there except metellus cimber ,  and he’s gone to look for you at your house .
if you still love her after that ,  then marry her tomorrow .
and let these deceitful fiends be believed no more, that trick us with double meanings, that keep the word of promise to our ears, and break it to our hopes!
it’s 9 am .
gentleness, go away to heaven, and fire-eyed fury be my guide now!
the count will be here soon with music, because he said he would.
you can’t mean what you’re saying .
i wish that no one but me might avenge my cousin's death !
call up the master constable dogberry .
my sword, i say!
honest!
have a nice day !
so how short am i ,  you painted barber pole ?
come .
romeo cried out ,   “ stop ,  my friends .
you’re making fun of me .
don’t damn yourself .
march gently ahead to meet him .
companions in sorrow alleviate our grief .
o, falsely, falsely murdered!
where have you come from, worthy baron?
i don’t know who had him arrested ,  but the man that arrested him was in a suit of leather .
you have amazed me .
a beautiful target is the one that gets hit the fastest .
sweetheart !
it’s my master who’s not getting the reward he deserves ,  not me .
do you want to know the effect of what i wrote?
if you did it, you are without equal.
in our case ,  our bad neighbors over their make us early risers ,  a healthy and sensible thing to be .
they stop and want to talk.
come ,  my queen ,  hold hands with me ,  and rock the ground where these sleepers are .
sir toby ,  madam ,  your relative .
what’s your name ?
your voice is loud and commanding ,  but you look like a working man .
my cause is fixed in my heart; yours has no less reason.
you’re thought to be the most
who, then, shall blame him when his own vexed senses begin to recoil and attack, when all that is within him revolts against him?
you will not move one foot to fight !
what should such a fool do with so good a wife ?
have faith ,  love me ,  and you will get better .
we must form a better opinion of ourselves if our uprising can pull the insatiable antony’s attention away from that egyptian widow .
pay him six thousand and cancel the debt .
swear.
romeo is banished, and all the world is nothing if he ever dares to come back to fight for you.
ok, i’ll say no more but to the problem.
but more of that tomorrow ,  when together with that matter ,  we will have political issues that need us jointly .
my deeds on my head!
you know it is the feast of the priest lupercus .
but if i ran away from the jew ,  i’d be following the advice of the devil ,  who’s the very devil himself .
i say you aren’t .
i’ll have him away tonight.
as killing a king !
yes ,  quite a large one ,  with many cells and dungeons ,  denmark being one of the worst .
so boring this day is ,  as the night before some festival is to an impatient child that has new clothes ,  and can’t wear them .
oh cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
my good my lord, may i a word with you.
be good enough to take back the same answer i gave before .
let me go .
this dagger has been mistaken ,  for ,  behold ,  his empty case is on the back of montague ,  and it’s misplaced in my daughter's bosom !
by a name that i don’t know how to tell you who i am.
widow dido ,  ”  you said ?
only too well .
unkindness is powerful ,  and his unkindness may kill me ,  but it’ll never destroy my love .
o, what a idle, wandering, and peasant slave i am!
tell us how it happened ,  noble casca .
venice has made cassio governor here on cyprus .
you!
me too .
i certainly will ,  sir .
she can’t deny it .
you will never fall victim to benedick’s charms ,  my niece .
what woman’s servant ?
i think it is like a weasel.
when we meet on judgment day ,  that look of yours will send me from heaven to hell ,  where devils will grab me .
run ,  master ,  run .
come ,  tailor ,  show it to us .
why ,  as a woodpecker caught in my own trap ,  osric .
that useless old man still thinks he can wield all the powers he’s given away .
he had one yesterday .
but often in these cases ,  reports are just estimates .
i will .
what do you think he wants ?
farewell, my lord.
then there would be two cousins lying sick in bed: one hurt by reasons and the other gone crazy without any .
you seasoned his food with screams .
i did.
was my father a traitor ,  mother ?
this is the silliest stuff that ever i heard .
you insult your face more than the tears did with that comment.
you’re alive .
the partygoers have arrived .
i beg you both that, being childhood friends and brought up with him, and since you know well his youth and disposition, that you will be pleased to rest here in our court for a while, so that, with your company, you draw him on to enjoy himself, and to gather, so much as from any occasion you may glean, whether anything, unknown to us, afflicts him like this, that, once we know, we can make better.
boy, this walking away shall not excuse the injuries that you have done to me; therefore, turn and draw your sword.
i bet i’ve been wrong about myself all this time .
we’ll see them immediately .
signor antonio ?
damn that toby !
that last part is true; my rest was the sweeter .
titinius' face is upward .
every fool can tell that.
do you go back dismayed ?
sir ,  i tell you that we are not .
yours evermore, most dear lady, while this brain is in him, hamlet.
at his best he’s a little less than a man ,  and at his worst he’s little more than an animal .
yes ,  a dozen of them—as many as there are women in the world ,  in fact .
listen!
behave as we would in denmark .
yes ,  of course .
you wrong me in every way .
just listen carefully while i tell you the amazing thing i saw ,  with these gentlemen as witnesses .
a man may fish with the worm that has eaten a king, and eat the fish that has fed on that worm.
soon we will toast around the table .
her father is baptista minola ,  a pleasant and courteous gentleman .
but as soon as the sun rises in the east ,  my sad son comes home to escape the light .
well ,  well ,  let’s go .
what other rites are you going to give her ?
mercutio, you hang out with romeo, hang out!
come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature, if it is well used.
your part in her you could not keep from death, but heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
quickly ,  hurry ,  hurry .
what noise startles in our ears?
can heaven be so jealous ?
what good could they claim ?
when ?
that’s where i’m going now ,  so i’ll leave you here .
the eye of man has not heard ,  the ear of man has not seen; man's hand is not able to taste ,  his tongue to conceive ,  or his heart to report ,  what my dream was .
my brother didn’t use my name to justify his rebellion .
and so i’m dying .
good friends, go in, and taste some wine with me; and we, like friends, will go ahead together straightaway.
is the king awake yet ,  worthy baron ?
whatever kind you want ,  i guess .
are you headed to the tower ?
is he gone, and he has nothing?
we’re sorry to hear this .
master constable ,  you’re going about this all wrong .
now, looking at both sides, nature has made strange fellows in her time: some that will peep through their eyes forever, and laugh like parrots at a bag-piper, and the others of such sour disposition that they'll never smile although a wise old man swears that the joke is funny.
go tell the king i want to talk to him for a few minutes .
you make me happy: i am full of pleasure.
am i the motive for these tears, my lord?
if ,  after every storm such calms come ,  may the winds blow until they have awakened death !
before i hear him ,  i want to decide some important issues that are on my mind concerning my throne and france .
if you are not ashamed to show ,  he won’t be ashamed to tell you what it means .
oh my ,  my bones ache so much .
your voice shall be as strong as any man's in giving out the new honorable offices.
farewell till then .
i’ll work on this ,  because i can give his state of mind true purpose ,  and i’ll bring him to the capitol .
she provoked me with her lying mouth ,  accusing me of crimes i didn’t commit .
put out the light of the candle ,  and then put out the light of her heart .
i know this quality in you ,  brutus—it’s as familiar to me as your face .
what should a man do but be merry?
give me too much of it ,  so i’ll get sick of it and stop loving .
if you want to pick a fight ,  you’ll have to find a more substantial excuse .
from now on ,  take care of your messages yourself .
damn those words ,   “ but yet !  ”   “ but yet ”  is like a jailer about to bring out some horrible criminal .
why ,  lamb !
ha!
i just saw your father the lord gloucester and notified him that the duke of cornwall and his wife regan will stay with him here tonight .
it would have amazed you very much .
please walk softly ,  so not even a mole hears us approach .
this green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn bush our dressing room, and we will do it just as we will do it before the duke.
i’m going ahead to get my spot to see him pass on his way to the capitol .
i shouldn’t need to, if you were acting like gentle brutus.
i’ll do so .
on my knee ,  i humbly ask your blessing .
here's a change indeed !
to die for adultery ?
take it back .
shame on you ,  demetrius !
i’ll move to a more open place and there speak to great caesar as he walks past .
that’s very soon .
can’t lord stanley sleep ?
come ,  come ,  good wine is a good familiar creature ,  if it is well used .
all your parts together didn’t arouse such jealousy in him as did that one ,  and that ,  in my regard ,  is his weak spot .
that’s not so, my lord, i am too much in the sun.
i give you my obedience and my humble service ,  madam .
i was hurt under your arm.
that is a mistake .
i have a  that’s from lack of sleep .
the tears have gotten a small victory by that, my face was bad enough before my tears took their revenge.
there's a daisy.
so why aren’t our eyelids heavy ?
a piece of work that will make sick men well again.
he grew into his seat ,  and had his horse do such wonderful things ,  as if he had been absorbed into the horse’s body with the brave beast .
so why does it seem so particular to you ?
i don’t know where he lives; and for me to make up a lodging, and say he lies here or he lies there is to lie in my own throat.
a drunkard or a corpse ?
that’s the way a good deed shines in a naughty world .
i recognize the handwriting .
there’s a nice reason why the constellation pleiades has only seven stars in it .
there have never been orphans who’ve suffered what we have .
oh ,  that arrow was well shot .
gone ?
now come sing around the cauldron like a ring of elves and fairies ,  enchanting everything you put in .
noting this poverty, i said to myself, ”if a man did need a poison now, ”the sale of which is punished by death in mantua, ”here lives a poor wretch would sell it to him.” o, this same thought only predicted my need, and this same needy man must sell it to me.
but gilded tombs contain worms .
gentlemen ,  stand up .
greetings to your lordship !
i am a spirit ,  yes ,  since i have a soul .
that braggart ,  punk villain who fights like he learned swordsmanship from a manual !
go back to your lord .
sir ,  i have no future ahead of me .
please ,  don’t turn me around so much: my stomach is upset .
no ,  cousin ,  i’m crying .
in such a night dido stood with a willow in her hand on the wild banks of the sea, and sent her love to return to carthage.
how shall i murder him, iago?
there’s two—a man and a woman .
has banquo gone from court ?
did you see him enter this abbey ?
don’t worry ,  i’ll be there .
lady!
why, there's no remedy; it is the curse of the military.
but if you just repeat it, as many actors do, i would prefer the town crier spoke my lines.
caesar, i never believed in omens, yet now they frighten me.
you can order no more than she can beg; your threats have no more strength than her weak prayers . — helena ,  i love you; by my life i do; i swear ,  by that which i will lose for you ,  to prove him a liar that says i don’t love you .
i heard nothing.
she's not fourteen.
we’ll bring him to his house with shouts and celebration !
young men's love ,  then ,  lies not truly in their hearts ,  but in their eyes .
don’t you letters to me from the friar ?
here's romeo's man.
i’d tell them that i saw natives like these—since they must be natives—who are graceful and well - mannered even if they’re monstrous to look at ,  kinder than most human beings you might find— kinder than almost any human .
will you come?
romeo's shall be as rich ,  lying by his lady's side ,  poor sacrifices of our hatred !
you speak like a very thankful and respectful boy ,  and may god bless you .
ma'am ,  you wouldn’t treat me like this if i were your father’s dog .
a friend .
what’s going on ,  othello ,  darling ?
while the moon was shining we didn’t even notice the candle .
its own color .
or so much as it needs, to revive the flower of royalty and drown the weeds.
farewell, my lord.
they finished their business with pompey ,  and pompey has left .
look ,  and you’ll see .
no words can express the pain .
get yourself to church on thursday, or never, after that, look me in the face.
damn, there is no such man; it is impossible.
take your penalty .
why ?
what did you mean by giving me this handkerchief ?
we shall obey ,  if she were ten times our mother .
aren’t things going well ?
i will not be afraid of death and ruin ,  until birnam forest come to dunsinane .
o how honest !
i’ll give my vile body back to the earth .
i can assure you that no enemy will ever take the noble brutus alive .
bring in more wine !
we have enough supplies for it ,  and they’ve earned it .
maybe she can’t meet him.
please now ,  keep below .
please ,  sir ,  go: my young master expects your insult .
so he does indeed.
in this way ,  a conscience can make cowards of us all ,  and in this way the natural color of making up your mind is covered with the pale shadow of thinking ,  and projects of great substance and significance ,  and in this regard ,  their movement turns erratic ,  and lose the name of action .
but ,  my good lord ,  why should you do this ?
o ,  no; he goes into mauritania ,  and takes the beautiful desdemona away with him ,  unless his living here can be delayed by some accident which no one can be so determined about removing of cassio .
we'll hear it ,  antony; you shall read us the will , —caesar's will !
how are you, my dear othello!
this ghost is more strange than such a murder is .
yes, my lord.
i didn’t see you; welcome, gentle signior; we missed your advice and your help tonight.
he has a ring of mine ,  worth forty ducats ,  and he promised to give me a necklace in exchange for it .
what ,  dead ,  my dove ?
we are attacked by ghosts .
am i really like one of those guys ?
the dictator ,  custom ,  very grave senators ,  has made the stone and steel couch of war my feather bed three times .
by what, in the name of god?
come on ,  i’ll escort you to dinner .
oh ,  sinful thought !
i was .
didn’t he come home tonight?
his position is hopeless .
how are you ,  my pretty bianca ?
that’s true .
a kind good-night to all!
it’s half of all my money .
then sweno, norwegian king, wanted a treaty; we would not agree to the burial of his men until he paid us, at saint colme's island, ten thousand dollars to our general use.
go ahead ,  use your authority .
and you’ve come at a very happy time to bear my greeting to the senators, and tell them that i can’t come today.
in prison we’ll outlast hordes of rulers that will come and go as their fortunes change .
bring him to me in silence .
i often came to places where i heard of her, but i cannot find her.
one voice speaks well and talks about his friend .
hurry ,  hurry—prepare my horse .
why, romeo, are you crazy?
cassio’s not dead ?
banquo ,  your soul's flight ,  if it finds heaven ,  must find it tonight .
then run away .
you know how young my daughter is .
your grace ,  please forgive me .
dreamer, speak once in your life, if you are a good dreamer.
what does lord stanley say ?
but how long will  “ ever ”  last ?
come ,  let me wipe your face .
isn’t she proud of such a match ?
i didn’t ,  either .
really ,  i’m afraid you are .
looking just like the dead king .
what have you got there ?
he can act as brave as he wants ,  but i believe on a cold night like this he wishes he were neck - deep in the thames ,  and i wish he were ,  too ,  and i with him ,  whatever the danger ,  so long as we were far away from here .
is that his answer ?
they
more strange than true.
i am their mother .
don’t talk to me, emilia; i cannot weep, and i don’t have any answers, except what should go by water.
in places i go to ,  great clerks have purposed to greet me with prepared welcomes; i have seen them shiver and look pale ,  make full stops in the middle of sentences ,  mess up their practiced speeches in their fears ,  and ,  in conclusion ,  stop all together ,  dumbstruck ,  not paying me a welcome .
because it is very easy to involve the listening desdemona in any honest pursuit .
quiet !
thank your stars that you’re brutus that speaks this way ,  or ,  by the gods ,  this speech would be your last .
what garment would your honor like to wear today ?
go where ,  my lord ? —cesario ,  my husband ,  stay here .
by mary ,  sir ,  nose - painting ,  sleep ,  and urine .
say ,  what entertainment do you have for this evening ?
take me .
let her come in.
long live she so !
she lies the same way, blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
you don’t need a ghost returning from the grave to tell you that ,  sir .
impudent prostitute!
i’m done for in this world ,  i believe .
may the devil turn you black ,  you white - faced fool !
my mind is confused .
come ,  come ,  you are too clever for your own good .
let me gather my wits and get serious here .
lord, lord!
oh ,  dainty duck !
besides the things that we have heard and seen ,  there is a man inside recounting the most horrid sights seen by the guards .
now i go ,  a jolly ,  thriving wooer ,  to marry my brother edward’s young daughter ,  elizabeth ,  because i know richmond has his eye on her .
if there are any ,  speak ,  for it is he whom i’ve offended .
trust me, i am glad about it.
sir ,  he left his belongings and treasure .
can i suffer that with patience but not my husband's secrets ?
bite him to death ,  please .
o, villain that i am!
yes ,  if i’m alive ,  and your mind hold ,  and your dinner worth the eating .
there’s a lot to learn when a fool recites the words of a madman .
i might come back soon .
this is not the time for dwelling on personal grievances .
beg her to fix this broken joint between you and her husband ,  and ,  i’ll bet against any thing worth naming ,  this crack in your love shall grow stronger than it was before .
o i wish i were a glove on that hand so that i might touch that cheek !
with my meaning ,  sir ,  however you want to say it .
isn’t that strange ?
i’m not as happy as i seem .
i’ll get there .
the lady is waking up.
how do you understand the scripture?
the one who makes her queen ,  of course .
kill me tomorrow—but let me live tonight .
my lord ,  this would not be believed in venice ,  although i could swear i saw it .
such a wagon driver as phaeton (the son of the sun god) would whip you to the west and bring in a cloudy night immediately .
do you even know what you’re talking about ?
thank you ,  my noble lord .
quickly ,  quickly ,  good iras ,  quickly .
my mistress, dearest; and i am humble forever.
what happened ,  general ?
these are but wild and whirling words ,  my lord .
it’s so too .
stop!
because ,  sir ,  it is as sure as you are roderigo ,  were i the moor ,  i would not be iago .
damn that crazy madman !
hermia is happy ,  wherever she lies ,  because she has blessed and attractive eyes .
though you untie the winds, and let them fight against the churches, though the roaring waves confuse sailors and sink ships, though corn on the cob be torn from its stalks, and trees blown down, though castles topple on their guards' heads, though palaces and pyramids bend their heads to their foundations, though the treasure of nature's buds tumble all together, even until destruction makes everything sick, answer the questions i ask you.
well ,  i’m not beautiful ,  so i hope that i can at least be chaste .
get yourself to church on thursday ,  or never ,  after that ,  look me in the face .
why ,  what a complicated case this is !
damned as you are ,  you have cast a spell on her; because i'll restore myself to all things of sense ,  if she wasn’t bound in chains of magic ,  would a maid so tender ,  beautiful ,  and happy ,  so opposed to marriage that she shunned the wealthy ,  curled darlings of our country ,  would she ever have ,  to merit a public joke ,  run from her father to the black bosom of a thing such as you ,  to fear ,  not to delight in ?
oh i hope that’s not true !
let me go ,  or i’ll knock you on the head .
i swear i have no idea why he stopped loving me .
i will proclaim my name around the field .
most mighty caesar ,  give me some reason ,  so i won’t be laughed at when i tell them so .
now, truly, gratiano, you give your wife a cause for grief that is very unkind; if it was given to me, i should be angry about it.
i take this offer then: pay the promise to pay three times, and let the christian go.
no ,  no ,  no ,  no !
young boy ,  i wish i could make you believe that i’m in love .
no ,  gentle madam .
i therefore arrest and attack you as an abuser of the world, a practitioner of the forbidden and illegal arts.
nothing ?
i hope you’re lucky enough to hear the true story by sticking around .
no ,  octavius caesar ,  we’ll respond to their charge .
i will kiss your lips.
lysander, look how i shake with fear!
who do you think ?
so have your money ready .
upon the king !
the death of my father ,  my physical weakness ,  the loss of all my friends ,  the threats of this man who’s taken me prisoner—all that would be easy for me to take ,  if only i could look through my prison windows once a day and see this girl .
say “better.” here comes one of capulet’s relatives.
what the traitor has lost, noble macbeth has won.
there’s no other way .
make it eight and eight .
can’t you tell that ?
what's the matter with you now ?
he’s not getting anything except the penalty .
if she were so moral ,  she would never have fallen in love with the moor in the first place .
i can’t believe that .
well ,  sir ,  it’s better to say little than to be tedious .
what are you, that seizes this time of night, taking the same fair and warlike form in which the dead king of denmark, now buried, did sometimes march?
we’re ruined ,  lady ,  we’re ruined !
say these bitter things to your bitter foe.
in form and moving ,  how expressive and admirable !
as i slept under this yew - tree here ,  i had a dream that my master and someone else were fighting and that my master killed him .
welcome ,  my good friends .
no ,  sir ,  she’s human .
they have made meat for the worms out meat of me .
shame on this day !
sir ,  amen .
so ,  tell me ,  assuming i win your daughter’s love ,  what dowry would she bring to the marriage ?
four days will quickly dissolve into four nights; four nights will quickly dream away the time; and then the moon, like a silver slice in the heavens, will light the night of our wedding solemnities.
claribel.
sir ,  that would be me and my partner .
good night ,  good boy .
you have .
they want to talk .
if you and i don’t value her equally ,  it would be better for us to work out our differences without her .
fool !
when will we get to the top of that cliff ?
but come at once ,  because the night is running away ,  and we are waited for at bassanio's feast .
but the special thing about it is,—which is indeed almost beyond belief,— as many verified “special things” are.
i do believe it ,  and i ask your pardon .
how are things going now ?
stay, gentle helena; hear my reason; my love, my life, my soul, fair helena!
it’s too small for your large mind .
now a noble heart breaks.
oh ,  with his sordid desertion ,  he sets the example for our own .
good sir ,  this ring was given to me by my wife .
come on ,  let’s go see king edward .
what should i do?
i wish you had my bones ,  and i had your news .
but i never spoke the whole time ?
it’s no use !
but it’s that you don’t love me.
madam ,  i swear i use no clever words at all .
take away the stools ,  the sideboards ,  and the plates .
where did they disappear to ?
well ,  that’s just greedy .
but when you are with him ,  your angel is weakened and easily frightened .
but where is he ?
if i were king ?
they are here at the court ,  and ,  i think ,  they are already hired to play before him tonight .
the bud from the moon-goddess’ plant has such force and blessed power over cupid's flower.
take your face out of here .
taste your legs ,  sir .
listen to my cause ,  and be silent ,  so you can hear .
you know the meeting place .
just think ,  i could be count malvolio !
but that’s just a fairy tale .
what’s this ,  you dog ?
and it’s very much lamented ,  brutus ,  that you don’t have any mirrors that will let you see your own hidden worthiness ,  any mirrors that you might let you see your shadow .
don’t bring me any more reports .
she’s desperate .
a just hatched bird runs away with eggshell on his head .
i don’t care about my sincerity ,  but i could accuse myself of such things that it were better my mother had not had me .
that’s why paintings of cupid ,  the god of love ,  always show him as blind .
ah ,  ha !
go to the harbor immediately !
goodbye ,  boy .
shame on this day!
don’t you have any modesty ,  any maiden shame ,  any touch of bashfulness ?
good volumnius ,  you know that we two went to school together; even because that our love of old ,  please ,  hold my sword handle while i run into it .
all our service, if done twice in every point, and then done double, would be poor and single business to compete with those honors deep and broad that your majesty heaps upon our house.
so - so ”  is good ,  very good ,  an excellent answer .
no, no; he's gone.
lysander ,  keep your hermia .
but i swear i’m not the person i’m playing .
come on ,  i’ll take you ,  but honestly i’m only doing it out of pity .
let four captains carry hamlet like a soldier onto the stage .
why, then the devil give him good of it!
oh ,  you mean when beatrice writes a letter and hero sees that it has  “ benedick ”  and  “ beatrice ”  written all over it ?
the humiliation is all mine .
like one of two contenders for a prize, that thinks he has done well in people's eyes, hearing applause and universal shout, giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt whether those peals of praise are his or not; so, three times beautiful lady, i stand i, even like this, as doubtful of whether what i see is true, until it is confirmed, signed, and ratified by you.
it’s fair game to mark a coward .
o cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
don’t worry ,  sir .
but here come some people ,  right in the nick of time .
don’t be lost so badly in your thoughts.
my lord of oxford ,  you ,  sir william brandon ,  and you ,  sir walter herbert ,  are going to stay with me .
now watch him; he begins to speak again .
oh ,  wise and upright judge ,  how much more older are you than your looks !
but, o, what form of prayer can help me?
was a man ever so tired ?
sir ,  she is mortal; but ,  by immortal providence ,  she's mine .
the british forces are on their way here .
do you want to destroy our old friendship by joining these men to insult your poor friend ?
and when will that be ?
the sweet fool in a fool’s costume—that’s me .
i  isn’t this good ?
give me the proof i can see; or, by the worth of man's eternal soul, you would’ve been better born a dog than answer my aroused anger!
the earth is nature’s mother and also nature’s tomb .
i’ll observe his looks ,  i’ll watch his every move .
are you going ?
let’s go .
no better ?
bad luck, bad luck?
my lord ?
it’s no less ,  i tell you ,  for the bawdy hand of the clock is now upon the prick of noon .
as for me, i embrace my fortune with sorrow.
it’s been proven that lady hero is innocent ,  that the prince and claudio have been utterly deceived ,  and that don john—who has run away—is the source of all the trouble .
he that you knows you, hamlet.
yes ,  madam .
you told me you hated him .
how are things now ?
you, to remove that siege of grief from her, engaged and would have married her against her will, to count paris.
i saw her face as she walked with her brother and mark antony .
what’s going on ?
this will make our actions seem practical and not vengeful .
but listen to me ,  gratiano .
this grave shall have a living monument .
juliet lies here ,  and her beauty fills this tomb with light .
if your majesties recall it ,  the welsh fought very valiantly in a garden where there were leeks growing ,  wearing leeks in their monmouth caps which ,  your majesty knows ,  is to this day a badge of honorable military service .
he needs to see you right away .
let’s go ,  because it is after midnight ,  and ,  before day ,  we’ll wake him up ,  and be sure that he’s with us .
hold your position ,  good fate ,  for his hanging !
let’s go back to our bedroom .
o, that the earth which kept the world in fear should patch a wall to expel the winter's cold!
what’s done is done .
i’m amazed you got here before me .
oh ,  sir— don’t think i’m flattering you .
how could he have even entertained these thoughts in his heart ?
just as bad ,  my lord .
examine them yourselves ,  then bring me your findings .
call me the worst liar ?
i would out - night you ,  if no one was coming ,  but ,  listen ,  i hear the footsteps of a man .
where's the captain ?
you are a senator .
what can you discern at sea from the cape ?
what name, beautiful lady?
who can stain that name with a just accusation ?
i believe that this applause is for some new honors that are to be heaped on caesar .
then we’ll be stuffed with news .
do you see nothing there ?
then i’ll call you a serving - creature .
how ?
i will rather seek to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight ,  so drunken ,  and so indiscreet an officer .
that’s where the patient must minister to himself .
they are here at the court, and, i think, they are already hired to play before him tonight.
tell me.
god's blessings go with you; and with those that would make a good situation out of a bad one and friends of foes !
their story is bizarre and astounding ,  but it’s solid and consistent .
you say right ,  sir .
do you think i would live a life of jealousy ,  tormented by new suspicions every hour ?
you have slept well; awake!
how are you, my lord!
uncle, i must come out.
i kill my husband dead a second time when second husband kisses me in bed .
let me be captured .
i’ll get some cloth and egg whites to bandage his bleeding face .
what’s up ,  grumio ?
gracious my lord, i would report what i say i saw, only i don’t know how to do it.
o, she was heavenly true!
no ,  not at all .
come, get ready.
what handkerchief!
bassanio, lord love, if it is your will!
run ,  my lord ,  run .
no more.
no ,  it was a little one ,  not more than a pint .
don’t be afraid although you see me armed ,  here is my journey's end ,  here is my bottom and very sea - mark of my last ship .
are these spirits we see before us ?
once ,  on a cold and windy day ,  when the river tiber was crashing against its banks ,  caesar said to me ,   “ cassius ,  i dare you to jump into this rough water with me and swim to that point there .  ”  as soon as he spoke ,  though i was fully dressed ,  i plunged in and called for him to follow .
i should sit in the corner and sing that song ,   “ heigh - ho for a husband !  ”  lady beatrice ,  i’ll get you a husband .
there’s something else to be done .
i have money in my purse and property at home ,  so i’m off to see the world .
sir ,  don’t even try to beat me in a battle of wits .
do you recognize this face ?
laertes, was your father dear to you?
that’s my way ,  when i see a crab - apple .
it’s too bad i’m so hard - hearted ,  because i really don’t love anyone .
thank you so much.
he only married out of political necessity .
goodbye .
yes ,  and wisely too; because it would have angered any heart alive ,  to hear the men deny it .
they vanished strangely .
when i raise my hand ,  you do the same ,  and bring it down on gonzalo’s head .
i think there is a lot of reason in what he’s saying .
i had come to the deepest part of my tale ,  and i planned to say nothing more on the topic .
the humiliation that the king is suffering now will be revenged thoroughly .
i don’t see any blood .
it is part of men to be afraid and tremble when the most mighty gods send lightening to astonish us.
the truth will be all the inheritance you get .
what’s the matter?
good - bye .
where’s the evidence against me ?
look ,  where he has turned pale ,  and has tears in his eyes .
i wish i could keep killing him for nine years straight .
don’t say anything else .
come at me in the form of a rugged russian bear ,  an armor - plated rhinoceros ,  or a tiger from iran .
arms, take your last embrace!
why ,  the wrong is but a wrong in the world; and having the world for your work ,  it is a wrong in your own world ,  and you might quickly make it right .
scale of dragon ,  tooth of wolf ,  witch's mummy ,  a gulf - like stomach ,  of the rough sea salt glisten ,  root of poison hemlock dug up in the dark ,  liver of christians not baptized ,  gall bladder of goat ,  and slips of pine trees cut off the tree when the moon eclipsed ,  nose of turk ,  and tartar's lips ,  finger of a baby born dead delivered in a ditch by a prostitute ,  make the gruel thick and gooey .
oh night with hue so black!
shall i believe that death that has no substance is a lover ,  and that the lean ugly monster keeps you here in dark to be his mistress ?
tie up the servant ,  for he is mad as well .
romeo cries aloud ,   ” stop ,  friends !
every subject’s duty is the king’s ,  but every subject’s soul is his own .
a pity that it should be so !
my friends ,  are you all lady olivia’s servants ?
are there no stones in heaven to serve as thunder?
yes ,  but no doctor can help me .
ha!
why do you ask ?
yes ,  as safe as her brothers' lives were .
both ,  both ,  my girl .
he is already named king; and gone to scone to be invested .
i am the unhappy subject of these quarrels.
it cannot be .
o cousin, cousin!
the candle burns in your bedroom ,  sir .
i reign in my resolution and begin to doubt the lie of the fiend that lies the same as telling the truth.
and didn’t i finally arrive to comfort you ?
why ,  jessica !
carry them away .
this fortification, gentlemen, shall we see it?
the wind sits in the best part of your sail ,  and the ship waits for you .
shylock, do you hear me?
listen to me, jessica: lock up my doors, and when you hear the drum, and the vile squealing of the long-necked pipe, don’t run up to the windows then, or thrust your head into the public street to gaze on christian fools with varnished masks; but stop my house's ears- i mean my windows; don’t let the sound of shallow foolishness enter my sober house.
if i may say so ,  your majesty ,  your famous grandfather and your great - uncle edward ,  the black prince of wales—or so i’ve read in the history books—fought a very brave battle here in france .
what was the second noise for ?
take me to the man my husband is in debt to .
i’ll think about what you’ve said; i’ll patiently hear what you’ve to say, and find a time when i can both meet with you to hear and answer such high things.
i want to die, if what you’re going to say is not a solution to this problem.
what players are they?
heaven help us !
nor i, my lord.
call up your courage .
but so what?
i wish you all the best .
i thank you, sir.
then heaven have mercy on me !
what’s that noise?
my dear ?
this my daughter has shown this to me in obedience, and furthermore, has his gifts, which she has described to me by the time, by means, and place they were received.
well it may turn out that this warning figure comes armed through our watch, looking so like the king that was and is the question of these wars.
yes, only she doesn’t see anything.
shouldn’t she just accept that ?
hide, fox, and show all later.
just opposite to what you justly seem ,  a damned saint ,  an honorable villain !
how is my generous sister ?
i must be idle.
praise in departing.
didn’t you hear a cry ?
i'd rather kill myself.
yes ,  boy ,  ready .
we all expect a gentle answer ,  jew .
people who die of it seldom or never recover .
a nice ,  soft pillow would be a more suitable place to lay that good white head than france’s hard ,  cold ground .
mixed it with dust, to which it is related.
o!
all right ,  i’ll stay another month .
see to his needs; he brings great news .
snap out of your daze .
a deed that will make sick men healthy .
with the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and prove a donkey .
oh !
and wait ,  good nurse ,  behind the abbey wall .
did he stare at you ?
what three things does drink make a man do ?
liberty !
oh wall, you have heard my moans very often, for separating my fair pyramus and me.
on him ,  on him !
can vengeance be pursued any further than death?
you are merry ,  my lord .
farewell.
when i work it over with magic spells ,  the drop will produce magical spirits that will trick macbeth with illusions .
hamlet ,  for this deed ,  for your special safety ,  which we do consider as we dearly grieve for what you’ve done ,  we must send you away with fiery quickness .
i have wasted myself out of my money .
you should ask instead if it’s possible that any criminal could be so rich .
i’m going on alone .
oh ,  gods ,  make me worthy of this noble wife !
but you’re no such man .
oh ,  please ,  tell us ,  sir .
if i saw twenty of the greatest powers that pay tribute to caesar taking such liberties with her hand—what’s her name now ?
yes ,  my lord .
i can’t sleep quietly in the tower .
but i don’t get it—what’s the joke ?
if anything of sorrow or wonder, stop your search.
yes, or hide the report in the pocket.
you want me to stop in my tale against the hair .
i wish i’d been there .
when roscius was an actor in ancient rome — the actors have arrived ,  my lord .
it’s a job meant for a man ,  but not you .
sir, we were discussing how our garments now seem as fresh as they were when we were at the wedding of your daughter, who is now queen, in tunis.
nerissa’s got the right idea .
mistress !
just now we put him in the abbey over here ,  and now he’s over there .
if they told the truth, as their speeches shine on you, macbeth, why, by the truths made good on you, might they not be my prophecies as well, and set up my hopes?
i won’t sort you with the rest of my servants, because, to speak to you like an honest man, i am most dreadfully attended.
i thought so when i supposed you were in love.
so ho !
did you hear, my honest friend?
if you keep on the way you’ve been going ,  you’ll kill yourself .
we fatten up all other creatures to fatten us up ,  when we fatten ourselves for maggots .
o cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
by god ,  your doors were locked and you were shut out .
for a while ,  no play was sold to the theaters without a big fight between the children’s playwright and the actors playing adult roles .
the main body of the army is expected here any hour now .
agincourt .
hold my sword ,  then ,  and turn away your face ,  while i run on it .
what ,  i have to hold a candle up so people can see what i’m doing ?
oh ,  my son ,  what issue is that ?
about as long as it would take someone to count slowly to a hundred .
what?
if they seek battle with us ,  have them come down or else clear the field .
now ,  until dawn ,  each fairy wander through this house .
well sir ,  good night .
o, it is most sweet, when you can kill two birds with one stone.
whom did he leave in charge here ?
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven ,  having some business ,  do beg her eyes to twinkle in their sockets till the stars return .
your wife and children were savagely slaughtered .
take off my armor .
revenge.
if you’re not immortal, look around you.
but don’t tell me; i know antonio is sad to think about his shipments.
was it a man ?
i'd have you live; because, in my thinking, it is happiness to die.
how do you know he loves her ?
mankind’s role is to fear and tremble when the almighty gods send warning signals .
he brings great news .
weren’t you the one who made him desert perigouna in the middle of the night ,  right after he’d raped her ?
it’s mercutio’s relative ,  noble count paris !
it is so, indeed.
here comes the lady .
go, change into a spirit, and come here invisibly: go, come here with care!
well ,  just say it ,  sir .
let me know .
she will be pleased .
didn’t you speak to it?
and were you then happy to find shelter on a bed of hay along with swine and homeless bums ?
what an eye she has !
well ,  that’s certainly out of this world ,  all right .
o, is that all?
now i’ll get cassio to do something in front of all these drunkards that will offend everyone on the island .
and because i know how fond she is of music ,  playing her instruments ,  and poetry ,  i plan to hire live - in tutors for her .
i think he told me paris was about to marry juliet .
who calls ?
then i’ll water all those precious herbs with my tears to make them grow .
how she returns like the spendthrift, with weather-beaten sides and ragged sails, thin, torn, and destitute by the prostitute wind!
i bet she’ll chew him out .
no ,  we’ll slink away at suppertime ,  disguise ourselves at my house ,  and return all in an hour .
the king wishes to know if you want to play against him right away ,  or wait awhile .
these chatty fellows who can rhyme their way into a lady’s good graces always reason themselves out again .
you !
what a strange drowsiness possesses them!
how?
i have to get to the barber's, sir, because i think i have an awful lot of hair on my face, and i am such a sensitive donkey, that i must scratch even if my hair only tickles me a little.
i know you’re the right person for this job .
i’ll give you the most expensive ring in venice ,  and i’ll make a public announcement to help me find it .
if you want to go to hell ,  there are better ways to do it than killing yourself .
turn the ship to the wind !
i am young ,  only something you may deserve of him through me ,  and wisdom to offer up a weak ,  poor ,  innocent lamb to appease an angry god .
why ,  there's no remedy; it is the curse of the military .
you might just as well say ,   “ that’s a valiant flea that dares to eat its breakfast on the lip of a lion .  ”  yes ,  exactly .
just imagine some lady might exist who loves you as powerfully and agonizingly as you love olivia .
no one except her maid and a holy hermit .
not stingless too .
i see you’ve met with the jeweler .
i’ll take all who served brutus into my service .
statilius showed the torchlight, but, my lord, he didn’t come back.
away ,  away ,  be gone .
yes ,  i’m sure he will—to stay with you .
silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
do you know who i am ?
it’s after six o'clock ,  my lord ,  when you said our work would be finished .
his love is blind and it suits the dark best.
well ,  let’s watch it .
we haven’t made a good preparation .
you have been talked about since your travel so much, for a quality where, they say, you really shine.
o heavy hour!
but i’m as immovable as the northern star ,  whose stable and stationary quality has no equal in the sky .
over there ,  sir ,  he’s walking .
now, by this hand, i gave it to a youth, a kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy no taller than you, the judge's clerk; a chattering boy that asked for it as a fee; i could not, for my heart, deny him the ring.
until i know it is done, however great my luck, my joys can never begin.
go down, because you must be carry my torch.
come on !
save you ,  friend cassio !
and so do i .
didn’t you see that ?
where should she be ?
i beg you ,  hurry .
eyes ,  do you see ?
go prick your face and hide your fear in a red face, you lily-livered boy.
where is the captain ,  officer in charge ?
you’re up early .
i say ,  it is not lost .
but if you die before i return ,  you’ll have made a mockery of my efforts .
that’s too long . —servants ,  leave her and me alone .
you shall have permission .
couple of days or not ,  of all days in the year ,  come the middle of july ,  she’ll be fourteen .
i like it too .
in truth, i know it is a sin to be a mocker, but him!
there is nothing in the world that i love as much as you .
you are my love, i think.
is this not more than our imaginations?
i found orlando under a tree ,  like a dropped acorn .
my dear lady— please let me say something ,  i’m begging you .
it’s a disgrace to us all .
denmark's a prison .
this was kindness ?
isn’t your master with him?
diseases grown desperate are best healed by desperate measures, or not at all.
keep your word .
it’s our destiny ,  like death .
why ,  what symptoms of love does she exhibit ?
did you leave on good terms ?
come here ,  man .
go tell the priests to perform a sacrifice immediately ,  and bring me their interpretation of the results .
who sent you this time ?
you’ve stunned him .
still your fingers to your lips again?
how sad, for mercy!
you are ,  but you don’t know it yet .
for eighty - one weeks he will waste away in agony .
where are they ?
hurry ,  go !
did you see how he laughed about sleeping with her ?
the best news is that we have safely found our king and company: the next ,  our ship , — which only three hours ago was wrecked ,  we thought— is water - tight and ready ,  and bravely rigged as when we first put out to sea .
get away from me ,  satan !
get going; away !
please don’t play games .
i hate the moor; and it is widely thought that he has done my job between my sheets .
did it go to sleep it off?
did i do anything good to myself ?
you say the king is losing his mind .
what is your pleasure ,  madam ?
care keeps his watch in every old man's eye, and, where care lodges, sleep will never lie; but where a perfect youth with an empty brain rests his limbs, golden sleep reigns there.
don’t worry ,  man ,  i won’t try to escape .
be patient with me, good boy, i’m very forgetful.
i have a reasonable good musical ear; let’s sing and dance .
not me ,  believe me .
beware of jealousy ,  my lord !
call him !
i wonder that none of you thought about getting his support .
nobody was hurt in the slightest .
no, i'll go with you, cheek by jowl.
make the best use of this information you can .
i don’t believe it .
what we have to worry about is a full - scale invasion from scotland—always an unreliable neighbor .
haven’t those in charge of it returned yet?
beatrice— i swear ,  i’m going .
do i only live outside of your good pleasure?
she’s dead ,  like a beautiful flower ,  killed by an unseasonable frost .
to whom do you speak this?
wait, tybalt, wait!
madam!
stay here; the generals want to talk .
why ,  the one i just told you about .
mercy on us !  ” —  “ we’re breaking up ,  we’re breaking up !  ” — ” goodbye ,  my wife and children !  ” —  “ goodbye ,  brother !  ” — ” we’re breaking up ,  we’re breaking up ,  we’re breaking up !  ” — let's all sink with the king .
and can’t you ,  by any circumstance ,  get from him why he puts on this craziness ,  grating all his days of quiet so harshly with turbulence and dangerous lunacy ?
yes ,  a thousand times .
just one glass .
i humbly thank you .
then i must be your lady; but i also know that ,  when you have stolen away from fairy - land ,  and ,  taking the shape of corin ,  the shepherd ,  you have sat all day ,  playing on pipes of corn ,  and speaking love poems to amorous phillida .
faith ,  that he did ,  i don’t know what he did .
my lord, i did, but it made me no answer.
what should i call you when you’re a man ?
we shouldn’t displease him .
we’ll keep the lines of communication open between us .
know myself !
is this the finest of his fine art, and the seizure of his house seizures, to have his fine pate full of fine dirt?
even more since you annexed my father’s house and lands .
did it really work ?
he’s welcome too .
i'll tell my husband ,  launcelot ,  what you say; here he comes .
who are you ?
why do you show me this ?
wouldn’t this do it, sir, together with a forest of feathers if the rest of my fortunes turn against with me, with two provincial roses on my shoes i took off, to get me a fellowship for writing with a pack of players, sir?
he who chooses me will get what many men want .  ”  what many men want—that  “ many ”  could mean that most people are fools and choose by whatever is flashy .
tell our top commanders that i want tomorrow’s battle to be the last we fight .
yes ,  sir .
romeo's a dish cloth compared to him.
therefore ,  tremble with fear and leave .
double, double, toil and trouble; fire, burn; and caldron, bubble.
i’ll follow it .
oh ,  what a villain !
do you know me ?
but before they reached us–let me say no more !
if i can tell him that you have submitted to him sweetly ,  he’ll request your assistance in finding ways in which he can support you .
hello ,  good sir .
but yet the pity of it ,  iago !
but ,  to my thinking ,  he was very reluctant to remove his fingers off it .
the glove which i have given him to wear may possibly win him a box on the ear .
do you in conscience think, tell me, emilia, that there are women who abuse their husbands in such a disgusting way?
will you agree with me that ferdinand is drowned ?
of laertes ?
monstrous !
or are you any thing that man may question?
we’re still waiting for one more .
he's gone ,  but his wife's killed .
an evil soul producing holy witness is like a villain with a smiling cheek ,  a good apple rotten at the heart .
my noble father, i see a divided duty here.
what will be my evidence ?
cover his mouth, bring him silently.
what did he say ?
general ,  be careful; he comes with bad intentions .
that’s completely beside the point .
oh ,  good sir ,  i am !
and that drop ,  distilled by magic tricks ,  shall raise such unnatural spirits ,  that ,  by the strength of their deception ,  shall add to his confusion .
this is the door .
mark antony ,  shall we give sign of battle ?
is it possible?
good night .
o, for two special reasons, which may to you, perhaps, seem a bit cowardly, but yet to me they are strong.
it has come again .
i’d rather have this tongue cut from my mouth than it should do offense to michael cassio; still ,  i convince myself ,  speaking the truth shall not wrong him .
come ,  sir ,  your forward thrust .
have all his ventures failed?
a dog, a rat, a mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death!
i am ready for you .
when i came back ,  for this was brief ,  -  - i found them close together ,  everyone was fighting ,  even as again they were when you yourself parted them .
you’ll live in luxury with gremio .
adieu .
what ,  gone ?
alas, she has nothing to say.
come ,  uncle exeter ,  enter harfleur .
leave us alone.
i’ll catch it before it falls to the ground .
i never saw this before.
draw your sword and get on your toes ,  because your assailant is quick ,  skillful ,  and deadly .
god forbid he wants to challenge me !
and mine ,  with my heart in it: and now goodbye until half an hour later .
or stole it ,  rather .
a light ,  a light !
it looks like you’ve offended it .
i would gladly prove so.
my servant !
a very handsome man .
what’s up ,  mister ?
sir ,  i believe this piece of trash ,  bianca ,  has something to do with all this trouble . —hang in there ,  cassio . —come here ,  bring the light .
farewell .
my brother thinks highly of you ,  and because of his affection ,  has helped arrange your marriage—but that was definitely a waste of his time and energy .
why are you so far from home ?
she that makes dainty and shy ,  she ,  i'll swear has corns !
my next is 'most fair pyramus .
what are you going to do ?
benedick ,  beatrice praised your wit the other day .
octavia has a pious ,  chaste ,  meek disposition .
do i encourage you ?
well, just say it, sir.
only three so far ?
my god ,  she can’t be a jew ,  she’s too nice !
we are men ,  my lord .
out ,  out ,  brief candle .
my lord ,  he wonders why you have assembled such troops of citizens to speak with him ,  since he had no idea they were coming .
but when this ring parts from this finger ,  then life parts from my body: oh !
dead ,  desdemon !
then see the evidence of their evil with your own eyes .
here comes the king ,  the queen ,  and the noblemen of court .
yes, amen!
they tell me you’ve done everything you can to talk him out of what he’s doing .
well ,  well ,  i don’t care .
welcome to the open air again .
if you mutiny against me ,  i’ll hang you from the next tree .
isn’t it monstrous that this actor here ,  only in a play ,  in a dream of passion ,  could force his soul so to his own actions that his grew pale from the words of the speech ,  tears in his eyes ,  separation from reality in his face ,  a broken voice ,  and his whole function matching forms to his role ?
with a hand like this you need to
by mary ,  i’ll teach you .
that’s how it will be for some other men ,  too ,  who think they’re as safe as you and i ,  who are well - loved by noble richard and buckingham .
think about that ,  and about what followed afterward .
and if the king were on it, what would i do?
blow ,  wind !
freedom!
you’re looking for lord hamlet .
if everything else fails ,  at least i have the power to take my own life .
how did he look ?
this will make them both so afraid that they’ll kill each other just by looking at each other .
crystal is muddy.
but aren’t you drowned ,  stephano ?
nobody; i myself .
i promise you ,  except for your company ,  i would have been in bed an hour ago .
the queen his mother lives almost by his looks, and for myself, whether it’s my virtue or my plague, she's so necessary to my life and soul, that, as the star moves only in his orbit, i couldn’t do anything without her say-so.
o curses on marriage, that we can call these delicate creatures ours, and not control their appetites!
i do remember a pharmacist ,  and lives near here ,  who i noticed was dressed in in tattered weeds ,  with overwhelming eyebrows ,  choosing the simple life .
i will leave here tonight.
and so did i.
here, my lord.
please forgive me if i’m mistaken ,  my lord—but i can’t keep quiet when i think you’re being insulted .
why ,  even in that was heaven good to me .
if you don’t ,  if i’m left alone ,  i swear i’ll have that legal expert as my bedfellow .
you speak well .
with this ,  i leave — that ,  as i killed my best friend for the good of rome ,  i have the same dagger for myself ,  to be used when it shall please my country to need my death .
yes ,  that’s my husband’s name .
oh ,  sweet england !
but, since the affairs of men still seem uncertain, let's think about the worst that can happen.
what a blunt fellow he’s turned out to be!
my god ,  it’s morning .
doesn’t that sound like true love ?
i think our country sinks beneath the yoke; it weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each new day ,  another gash is added to her wounds .
you too, brutus?— then fall, caesar!
you’re wasting your efforts .
if i were my father ,  cousin ,  would i do this ?
can we do that ?
he was also shocked to learn that on the same day you fought the rebels you also fought against the army of norway ,  and that you weren’t the least bit afraid of death ,  even as you killed everyone around you .
let me see .
yes ,  she really did .
and is it healthy to walk uncovered and breathe in the dampness of the morning ?
why are you whipping that whore ?
their villainy nauseates me ,  and i must therefore vomit it up .
she was previously caius marcellus’ wife .
do you confess so much?
have patience ,  gentle friends ,  i must not read it; it isn’t proper that you know how caesar loved you .
i see a voice !
we have a little dessert coming up .
they have made themselves agree, and that agreement now doesn’t agree with you.
o, sweet my mother, don’t push me away!
let's make us medicines of our great revenge ,  to cure this deadly grief .
it is not honesty in me to discuss what i have seen and known.
but what do say you to thursday?
there he is at the window .
if there is any one fit to govern, speak.
how are you ,  hamlet ?
bless you ,  master .
i’m a nobleman ,  and i know what i’m doing in assigning this job to you .
my lady olivia’s inside ,  sir .
let’s hear what he has to say .
what a stupid man he’s become !
the fat ,  sloppy woman cries .
it would be easier to do it in the dark .
oh ,  kate ,  prudish customs bow before great kings .
escape and make peace with caesar .
their senses thus weakened, lost within their strong fears, made senseless things begin to do them wrong, because briers and thorns catch their clothes, some sleeves, some hats.
i will not .
the cowslip flowers are her bodyguards .
do you hear me?
you do stay ,  please ,  tell me what you think of me .
just like that ,  my lord .
what!
say what you want ,  but i know what i know .
being satisfied with a job well done is payment enough .
halt !
which one is sebastian ?
go now ,  lord constable and all you princes ,  and quickly bring us news of england’s defeat .
at my unworthiness ,  that dares not offer to you what i desire to give you ,  or much less take what i shall die to want from you .
i have brought him a present.
so sorrow's heaviness does heavier grow because my sleep has been interrupted .
well ,  learn to make jokes at the appropriate time .
once i’ve put my rackets to these balls ,  i’ll play a set in france ,  god willing ,  that will knock his father’s crown right out of the court .
o son, the night before your wedding day death has slept with your bride.
sweet lord ,  if your lordship were not busy ,  i should impart a thing to you from his majesty .
o villain !
let’s hear it, sweet bottom.
you don’t see our hearts; they’re full of pity; pity the general injury of rome — as fire drives out fire, so pity drives out pity — has done this deed on caesar.
nor the soles of her shoe?
i tell you ,  i feel very jolly remembering such a beautiful dream .
the people in the street cry  “ romeo ,  ”  some  “ juliet ,  ”  and some  “ paris ,  ”  and all run with open outcries toward our tomb .
that gallant spirit has gone into the clouds ,  which saw an untimely death here on earth .
is that how it is ,  countrymen ?
what it is ,  my caius ,  i’ll tell you ,  as we are walking ,  as to whom it must be done .
where would othello go ? —oh ,  look at you !
my heart is very light in my chest, and all this day an unusually happy spirit lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
and you’re right to do so .
do you recognize the writing?
say, why is this?
no ,  i swear by my life and soul !
well sir ,  they’ve lied; moreover ,  they have said things that were not true; secondarily ,  they are slanderers; sixth and lastly ,  they have falsely accused a lady; thirdly ,  they have confirmed things that did not in fact happen; and ,  in conclusion ,  they are lying scoundrels .
my honored lord, you know right well you did, and with them, words composed of so sweet an air as made the things more rich.
yes, and for that you die.
macbeth!
romeo !
so, i die with a kiss.
take up those ropes.
i don’t want to have anything to do with you anymore .
what's hecuba to him ,  or he to hecuba ,  that he should weep for her ?
god be with all of you ,  princes .
hey !
you’d better go inside .
o god, that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains!
in doing the service and the loyalty i owe you, i am well paid.
in religion, what damned error is there that some sober face will bless it, and approve it with a text, hiding the grossness with a beautiful ornament?
thou hast most kindly hit it.
now lies he there ,  and there is no one too poor to pay him respect .
this is a rotten song to sing at a man’s funeral .
yes she has ,  and by keeping celibate ,  she wastes her beauty .
listen, guildenstern, and you too, with each ear.
please ,  tell my father ,  madam ,  i won’t marry yet .
the world’s a liar .
shall we not ?
speak ,  claudio ,  that’s your cue .
may god’s arm strike on our side !
right now; as fast as she can say the vows .
that is the voice ,  or i am much mistaken ,  of portia .
that way ,  he’ll waste his provisions and tire out his soldiers ,  weakening his own capacities ,  while we ,  lying still ,  are rested ,  energetic ,  and nimble .
what do you think about it ?
actually, sweet love, i was just coming to your house.
now you know ,  casca ,  i have already persuaded some certain of the noblest - minded romans to join me in an undertaking of honorable/dangerous consequence; and i know by this ,  they are waiting for me in pompey's porch .
o ,  yes; as summer flies are in the swamps ,  that move quickly even with blowing .
here ,  you incestuous ,  murderous ,  damned dane ,  drink this potion .
yes ,  my lord .
no ,  by no means .
and died from that?
my lord!
for, by my faith, i cannot reason.
hey ,  mountain ,  hey !
that fair - skinned ,  hard - hearted hussy ,  rosaline is going to torment him until he goes insane .
i’m afraid of what they might encourage him to do ,  considering the state he’s in .
i’m done.
his breath stinks .
this is the air ,  that’s the glorious sun .
i’ll give it back to you .
you are to blame, my lord, to berate her like this.
some of those lines had more feet than the  that’s not a problem: the feet can bear sure ,  but these feet were
but as for now—before two weeks have gone by ,  i’m going to send some people packing .
malcolm !
i should be wise, because honesty's a fool, and loses what it works for.
what's your grace's will ?
your houses !
now ,  let it work .
but aren’t you drowned ,  stephano ?
what trumpet is that one?
i believe you believe what you say now, but what we determine to, often we don’t.
no you haven’t ,  cousin .
then you might as well say they’re not dead .
o noble english ,  who could take on the entire french army with only half their forces ,  leaving the other half to stand by ,  idle and laughing .
then antony offered it the third time .
you have taken it more seriously than i meant you to.
just as you mention it in the charge.
perhaps i say this before a willing slave .
he rests tonight within twenty - one miles of rome .
give me my robe, because i’ll go.
i’ll have you speak out the rest of this soon.
this rudeness is the topping to his good traits ,  which lets men accept his words with better understanding .
i hate it when i hear a blustery actor in a wig tear a passion to shreds ,  bursting everyone’s eardrums so as to impress the audience on the lower levels of the playhouse ,  who for the most part can only appreciate loud noises and pantomime shows .
don’t shed any blood; or cut less nor more ,  exactly just a pound of flesh: if you take more ,  or less ,  than a just pound ,  whether it is only so much that makes it light or heavy in the substance ,  or the division of the twentieth part of one poor scruple; no ,  if the scale turns only by a hair ,  you die ,  and all your goods are seized .
take her to my tent .
won’t the ladies be scared of the lion ?
now from head to foot i’m as firm as marble .
why are you defying me in this urgent matter ?
yes ,  but who is he ?
what conquest does he bring home ?
you’re lying ,  you shaggy - haired villain !
as stupid as dirt!
what day is this?
very like a whale.
we had a little food and fresh water that a nobleman from naples ,  gonzalo ,  had given us out of the kindness of his heart .
your beautiful eyes ,  sweet lady ,  have infected mine with love .
to hell with all worn - out horses ,  all crazy masters ,  and all bad roads .
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you just gave me?
oh !
i’m glad you’ve come ,  father .
but things have changed there ,  and it’s easier for them on the road now .
your friends are up and buckling on their armor .
good morning ,  my friends .
i was born to speak cleverly ,  not seriously .
but don’t go to my uncle's bed ,  act as though you have a virtue if you don’t have it .
but who asked you to join us ?
or say, sweet love, what you desire to eat.
the duke and senators of venice greet you .
hold ,  tybalt !
i mean ,  lay my head on your lap ?
who do you mean ?
where is my love ?
what's the matter, lady?
yes ,  what time is it ?
i have brought you from venice.
then tell them to treat us well .
i must find a reader.
sir, have pity; i'll be his guarantee.
he is a worthy governor but this same cassio ,  although he speaks of comfort touching the turkish loss ,  he still looks sad ,  and prays the moor is safe ,  because they were parted with an evil and violent tempest .
oh life !
give him this deed and have him sign it .
o shame !
be good .
lose hope of your charm; and let the genius whom you still have served tell you, macduff was from his mother's womb delivered by caesarean section.
well ,  shylock ,  shall we be indebted to you ?
if we flee from the boar before the boar even pursues us ,  we’ll only make the boar angry and suspicious ,  causing him to chase us when he never intended to .
the clock struck nine when i sent the nurse; she promised to return in half an hour .
what’s wrong ,  hecate ?
my master has instructed me to go to saint luke’s to tell the priest to be ready in case you should show up with your better half .
she shall not .
that monster habit, who eats all sense, of all evil habits is an angel in this, that in order to use fair and good actions, he likewise gives a dress or uniform that is ready to wear.
shall i be your slave ?
good faith, how foolish are our minds!
at my poor house look to behold this night women like earth - treading stars that make dark heaven light .
you are the best of the cutthroats .
are you insane ?
that villain cousin would have killed my husband .
a loud - mouthed ,  drunken monster .
i wouldn’t follow him then.
no man must know .  ”  what if this someone were you ,  malvolio ?
well then ,  good bye ,  my lord .
i’ll be assured that i may; and ,  that i may be assured ,  i will think it over .
come ,  give us a bit of your quality .
wait ,  tybalt ,  wait !
you are impatient as fire, to say that she was false.
i have done the deed .
your last guess is right .
as a friend .
leave out the water .
the duke of gloucester ,  who has command over the siege ,  is in consultation with an irishman ,  a very valiant gentleman indeed .
but did you ever tell him she was unfaithful?
go to bed and rest ,  because you need to rest .
can i suffer that with patience but not my husband's secrets?
give her this key ,  and tell her that there’s money in the desk that’s covered with a turkish tapestry .
what can i do for you ?
keep an eye on her .
where will you lead me ?
i won’t deny you anything !
oh you damned villain !
i didn’t ,  my lord .
i didn’t do anything wrong that i know of ,  unless it was a sin to defend myself when someone attacked me .
fulvia ?
please ,  recognize me when we meet again: i wish you well ,  and so i say goodbye .
if he had as many lives as he’s got hairs on his head ,  i would’ve killed them all in revenge .
what beard would be best to play it in?
the jewels you have had from me to deliver to desdemona would half have corrupted a nun.
why, how now, ho!
he look should look that way with so many strange things to say .
i'll tell my husband, launcelot, what you say; here he comes.
what day is this ?
so ,  using my lecture and advice from before ,  you shall check on my son .
why, i am glad!
hurry up ,  audrey ,  hurry . —i’m coming ,  i’m coming .
in the name of truth ,  are you fantastic beings or indeed what you look like ?
i have no choice .
you are a tame man; go !
here, you incestuous, murderous, damned dane, drink this potion.
where's antony?
who would do that ?
come, my coach!
yes ,  good idea; that’s the
oh ,  how silly we are !
no woman is strong enough to put up with the kind of intense passion i feel .
the heavens are being stingy with their light .
and cassio killed ?
peter quince— what do you say, bully bottom?
i don’t think there is any such woman.
what trumpet is that one ?
i’m your advocate ,  and i’d rather die than give up on you .
what—is he scared of a gun that only fired a blank ?
come, vial.
o dardanius !
pray you, peace!
sir, i’ll give you a whole history.
if hercules and lichas threw dice to decide who was the better man ,  the best throw may be turned by luck to come from the weaker hand: so alcides was beaten by his boy servant; and i might too ,  with blind fortune leading me ,  miss that treasure which a more unworthy man may get ,  and i’ll die from grieving .
come on, let’s get going!
my lord .
sir ,  this report of his poisoned hamlet with envy that he couldn’t do anything but wish and beg your sudden coming over her to play with him .
o, if you were the noblest of your strain, young man, you could not die more honorably.
thanks for your pains.
what is a traitor ?
love, and be friends as two such men should be, because i am older, i'm sure, than you.
god protect you from tornadoes ,  evil stars ,  and diseases !
i don’t deny it .
how long will a man lie in the earth before he rots ?
but i’m sure he’ll get even with you .
i'll be right behind you .
what ,  you want them to weep our horses' blood ?
it’s good you found me .
you have loved him well; he hasn’t touched you yet .
what do you have to say to me ?
pay attention .
past noon.
all three of us will marry now in death .
don’t you have any sense at all ?
heavens rain grace on that which grows between them !
you’re using this as an excuse for not showing up at the porcupine like you promised .
it is the cry of women ,  my good lord .
i’ve got you now ,  pagan .
with drink ,  sir ?
you just missed a fight that was barely avoided .
although birnam wood did come to dunsinane, and you against me, being given birth to by a woman, i will still fight to the end.
silenced with that story, and reviewing all the events of the day, he found you in the stout norwegian’s ranks, not afraid of what you did or the strange images of death.
we must preserve our goodwill toward each other and not break into factions again .
good gentlemen, he has much talked of you, and i am sure that there are not living two men with whom he feels close.
the clock says it’s daytime ,  but dark night is strangling the sun .
a jealous spy, a jealous spy!
ha !
o day and night ,  but this is wondrous strange !
and love doesn’t have good judgment either—cupid ,  has wings and no eyes ,  so he’s bound to be reckless and hasty .
out of the moon, i assure you: i was the man in the moon, a long time ago.
o, it is evil in her.
well run, thisbe.
is it possible ?
or you can pretend to settle your differences until this matter with pompey is finished .
yes, if you dare to do yourself a profit and a right.
may god give their souls rest .
how can that be ,  when the king himself says you will succeed him to the throne in denmark ?
o, go away!
whichever hand literally stabbed their tender hearts ,  you’re the one who gave the order .
but with you it’s different .
i beg you ,  be firm with him .
yes ,  if your memories do you no good .
now that noble vessel is so full of grief ,  that it runs over ,  even from his eyes .
lights ,  lights ,  lights !
thank you ,  sir .
my husband is on earth ,  my faith in heaven .
yes ,  we will .
farewell ,  my lord .
well ,  if he’s not rotten before he dies ,  as we have many small pox corpses nowadays that will scarce last beyond the wake ,  he will last you some eight years or nine years .
hello ,  sir .
welcome ,  destruction ,  blood ,  and massacre !
what needs to be done ?
won’t king richard let me speak with him ?
so ,  where should we eat ?
i’m afraid we shall oversleep in the morning ,  as much as we stayed up late this night .
my lord ,  what are you talking about ?
well ,  god bless this marriage !
no more words.
what ,  are you mocking me to my face ?
oh ,  i am out of breath in this happy chase !
i wish she were in her coffin here ,  with the ducats in her coffin !
oh, so what graces, then, does he have, that he has turned a heaven into hell!
did you see ?
appear in the likeness of a sigh .
the thief gone with so much ,  and so much to find the thief; and no satisfaction ,  no revenge; or only bad luck stirring and sits on my shoulders; no sighs except the ones i’m breathing; no tears except the ones i’m shedding .
what would you ask, laertes?
some twenty of them fought in this black fight ,  and all those twenty could only take one life .
follow me close, because i will speak to them.
did you see how he laughed at his sin ?
so that england may live a long life like this ,  let god say amen !
romeo !
don’t talk to me ,  because i won’t say a word .
the moon goes down at twelve .
i beg you to pardon me .
blessings on you!
are you wise ?
signior gremio ,  are you coming from the church ?
yes ,  you already hurt me in the church ,  in the town ,  and in the fields .
i found them on a tree .
if this is true ,  then i should know this secret .
please do .
holy father lawrence instructed me to fall on my knees and beg your forgiveness .
or was it a blessing that we came here ?
come ,  high or low; yourself and duties skillfully show !
i heard a bustling rumor ,  like a riot ,  and the wind brings it from the capitol .
no ,  this fun is not for me .
will no one back me up ?
nothing that you want to hear ,  my lord ,  but nothing so bad that i can’t mention it .
death is my son - in - law .
how much salt water was thrown away in waste ,  to season love ,  that did not taste love !
oh ,  how awful !
let her come in.
and he’s still warm ,  by god .
what's the matter, husband?
do you think that i’m no stronger than my sex, being so fathered and so married?
out, out, brief candle!
has your heart cooled toward me ?
no offense taken .
if he’s never drunk it before ,  it’ll help soothe his fever .
i am not drunk now; i can stand well enough ,  and i speak well enough .
yes ,  or drinking ,  fencing ,  swearing ,  quarrelling ,  prostitution .
in the name of truth, are you fantastic beings or indeed what you look like?
no ,  messala .
alas, that love, so gentle in his promise, should be so tyrannous and rough in reality!
what are you ?
goodbye .
it’s noble kent ,  your friend .
i must hear from you every hour of the day ,  because there are many days in just one minute .
you won’t lose any respect .
but my heart is still throbbing to know one thing .
mistress ,  you have to go see your father .
he used to lend money as a favor between christians; but now ,  let him think about his own debt .
labio and flavio ,  push our armies onward .
go back to bed; it isn’t day.
they made him drink the leftover wine usually given to the poor .
did you ,  by indirect and forced methods ,  subdue and poison this young maid's affections ?
even my hair revolts .
by mary ,  sir ,  it’s a sick cook that cannot lick his own fingers .
no ,  nor more fearful .
doesn’t anyone else want to see this ,  and hear breath wheezing out from broken ribs ?
i’d like to sing my song solo .
i admit i’m only a woman ,  but nevertheless i’m the woman lord brutus took for his wife .
if you are already slain and not by me, my wife and children's ghosts will still haunt me.
come ,  for england !
tell her you heard us ,  and that she should sneak into the arbor where the crisscrossing branches overhead keep the honeysuckles out of the sun .
we'll burn his body in the holy place ,  and we’ll set the traitors' houses on fire with the torches .
he’s speaking now ,  or perhaps he’s whispering ,   “ where’s my serpent of the nile ?  ”  for that’s his pet name for me .
don’t say anything bad about wine anymore .
look you ,  here she comes !
it’s getting there .
you’ll get some of what you want .
early in the morning i’ll go visit desdemona and plead my case .
he answered 'don’t hurry back; don’t be careless with business for my sake, bassanio, but wait until your plans are realized; and for the jew's promise to pay which he has from me, don’t let it enter your mind, thinking about love: be happy, and use your main thoughts for courtship, and such beautiful shows of love that may agree with you there.” and even there, his eyes being big with tears, turning his face away, he put his hands behind him, and with affection that was amazingly easy to feel, he shook and shook bassanio's hand, and they parted like that.
o, where?
but i didn’t want you to think that i’m hasty in my emotions .
i remember a lot, but nothing clearly, a quarrel, but not why.
the next day i explained all this to him ,  which was as good as begging his pardon .
are you beautiful ?
ha !
although i may not be as graceful as you, so hung upon with love, so fortunate, but most miserable most, to love and still be unloved?
if they find that we killed your father or had him killed ,  we will surrender our kingdom ,  our crown ,  our life ,  and all that we call ours ,  to you in satisfaction ,  but if not ,  you must be patient with us ,  and we shall work together with your soul to give it just compensation .
rightly to be great is not to move without great argument ,  but to find quarrel greatly in worthless land when honor’s at stake .
gentlemen !
you said the enemy would not come down, but keep the hills and upper regions.
you’re right .
tsk ,  you’re wrong .
her father loved me, often invited me; still questioned me the story of my life, from year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes, that i have been in.
are the others waiting ?
the next bit of good news is that our ship—which we gave up for ruined only three hours ago—is as well - outfitted and seaworthy as it was when we first set sail .
lord ,  what fools these mortals are !
what have you found?
how are you ,  my friend ?
i’ll give you enough gold to pay back your debt twenty times over .
when this advice i give is free and honest ,  calculated to his thinking ,  and ,  indeed ,  the way to win the moor again ?
no ,  who are you ?
did you speak to him ?
but i’ll write again to mantua ,  and i’ll keep her in my cell until romeo comes .
gentlemen ,  you are welcome to elsinore .
master ,  do you really mean that ?
rather seek to be hanged in planning your joy than to be drowned and go without her.
well it may turn out that this warning figure comes armed through our watch ,  looking so like the king that was and is the question of these wars .
take it away .
now he lies there worth nothing ,  and no one is so humble as to show him respect .
because it’s dark out ,  i’m afraid all this is just a dream ,  too sweet to be real .
if i have punished you too harshly, your payment makes up for it, because i have given you here a third of my own life, or the part for which i live, who, once again, i give to you.
shall i not have just my principal?
come, some music!
i’ll meet you at your tent .
you’ve won .
oh ,  are you here ,  iago ?
for what favor ?
many people have told me so .
what do you think about the scottish lord, his neighbor?
bastard, arrogant noisemaker, we’re less afraid to be drowned than you are.
by heaven ,  i would rather have been his hangman .
i'll keep my oath ,  patiently to deal with my anger .
tell her my love is purer than anything else in the whole world ,  and has nothing to do with her property .
lover !
to that end ,  i presented him with the tennis balls ,  the perfect expression of his inexperience and frivolity .
o villain!
oh ,  my poor rosalind ,  where will you go ?
i met this man with my glove in his cap ,  and i have been as good as my word .
i’ll hide and listen in .
quite jaw-fallen?
and now this man has become a god ,  and cassius is a wretched creature ,  and must bow ,  even if caesar only nods at him carelessly .
what can i say to him ,  lady ?
find the jew's house, give him this deed, and let him sign it; we'll leave tonight, and be a day ahead of our husbands coming home.
you couldn’t see him ,  but i could .
your name ,  sir ,  truly .
i won’t be eating at home; i have to meet the captains at the fortress .
it would cost you a night in bed to take the edge off me.
it’s you we were laughing at .
that’s what i said when i first conjured the tempest .
by isis ,  i’ll give you bloody teeth if you ever compare caesar with antony ,  my best man among men .
you had rotten food ,  and he helped you eat it .
let’s go, because it is after midnight, and, before day, we’ll wake him up, and be sure that he’s with us.
a roman .
he’s an unremarkable man ,  fit only to be sent on errands .
i beg you to stay with us ,  don’t go to wittenberg .
trust me ,  you could slide all the way from my shoulder to my heel taking no more of a running start than the distance between my head and my neck .
i have not escaped drowning to be afraid now of your four legs; because it has been said, “as proper a man as ever went on four legs can’t make him give ground”: and it shall be said so again, while stephano still breathes through his nostrils.
no ,  son .
if you work for him ,  you’re a fool and should wear a fool’s cap . —so how’s it going ,  uncle ?
i am for you .
these vows are hermia's.
oh ,  look !
you move your cunning ahead more and more.
stop ,  sir ,  for god’s sake !
tell the duke of albany to prepare for war immediately .
no ,  dear queen .
i hope antonio repays his loan on time ,  or he’ll suffer for this .
it would be better if you took attendance, man by man, according to the list.
since i have your permission to go, i’ll hurry; but, until i come back again, i will not sleep, and rest will not keep us two apart.
you know we work by wit and not by witchcraft; and wit depends on slow time .
she turned to folly ,  and she was a whore .
but i’m running ahead of myself .
all eyes !
tyrants themselves wept when they heard about it .
give my answer to them both .
what’s the news !
go ahead ,  then .
they can’t have changed; there’s no way this could be true .
a messenger has arrived from caesar .
just say  “ yes ”  and i will turn more poisonous than the snake with the evil eye .
you’re lucky ,  my lord ,  to be able to see the peace and sweetness even in what bad luck has brought you .
do as i tell you .
what ,  ho !
he is the prince of horses .
you have loved him well; he hasn’t touched you yet.
hey ,  love ,  i say !
lysander and i are running away from here .
please avoid it.
then ,  to answer every man briefly ,  wisely ,  and truthfully—wisely i say ,  i am a bachelor .
we’re all against what caesar stands for ,  and there’s no blood in that .
no .
and then it seemed startled, like a guilty thing running from a court order.
do you see the ghastliness of her eye?
it’s driven me crazy .
here ,  and your baggage back where you found it .
a really good exploit, a manly enterprise, to bring up tears in a poor maid's eyes with your insults!
you promised to give it to me after a full year.
i myself will board the ship right away and go to the state to relate his heavy act with heavy heart .
yes ,  but that makes me love you even more .
octavius ,  i’m older than you are .
what, ho!
but i cannot choose but weep, to think they would lay him in the cold ground.
i have drawn my sword .
yes ,  very well .
my lord ,  he will swear on his life that i haven’t kept a thing . —tell the truth ,  seleucus .
did you see the gloomy lord northumberland ?
where is demetrius?
and though i wouldn’t dare to swear that you love me ,  still my blood begins to flatter me that you do ,  despite the ill effects of my face .
you’ve described a hot friend cooling off .
farewell ,  sir .
as far as i can see, it burns in the capulet’s tomb.
o ,  forgive me for bringing you this sad news ,  since you did leave it all up to me ,  sir .
he, being weak, most generous, and free from all trickery, will not think about swords, so that easily, or with a little mix up, you may choose a sword that’s not poisoned, and, in a pass during practice, kill him in revenge for your father.
god save you, sir!
what does your grace want ?
banquo and macbeth, all hail!
what do you say ?
and so she did.
will you kill yourself ?
iago?
he doesn’t dare come there for the candle, because you see, it’s already out.
stop ,  take my sword .
i wouldn’t stay here tonight for the entire town .
will you have me ?
come here ,  good volumnius .
whatever has already been done can’t be undone now .
but ,  to go back to where i started ,  our wills and fates run in so much in different directions ,  that our plans are still turned upside down ,  our thoughts are ours ,  but their results aren’t ours .
lord, so what?
titania ,  call for music ,  and strike the senses of all these five so that they seem more dead than sleeping .
ha ,  ha !
go ahead .
do you mean to say that the duke has abandoned the glamorous court to live as a monk ?
but it’s not important .
your vote will be as strong as anyone’s in the reordering of the government .
there wasn’t any problem .
speak again.
go ,  captain ,  send my greetings to the danish king .
it is part of men to be afraid and tremble when the most mighty gods send lightening to astonish us .
if it’s not for an important purpose, give it back to me again.
it’s another such polecat !
who was it that came by?
they’ll consider you and jessica masters of this house in place of lord bassanio and myself .
let me borrow a mirror .
but lysander’s so attractive that he’s turned heaven into hell !
so you’re the only one who could play pyramus .
yes ,  you have seen cassio and her together .
it seems to be the truth .
i said you had a fine wit .
good rest in the meantime!
good gertrude ,  put a guard over your son .
i’ll need to have more proof than this.
don pedro is here .
what evil things were done to us that we were driven here ?
i am resolved—to let him live .
what, nurse, i say!
yes, it does shine that night.
tell me ,  just to be sure ,  even though i'll swear that i know your voice .
we'll teach you to drink a lot before you leave!
do you understand the word?
leave you!
yes ,  casca .
if the future turns out as i hope it will ,  i’m all set for success .
go hang yourselves ,  all of you !
who was that ?
what you just said may perhaps be true .
tonight he boarded a treasure ship .
but if antony is alive ,  healthy ,  friendly with caesar ,  and not caesar’s prisoner ,  i’ll shower you with gold and pearls .
if i were brutus now and brutus were me ,  i wouldn’t have let him influence me .
what now ,  roderigo !
deny me this ,  and an eternal curse fall on you !
did it stay a long time ?
she has already seen him with those sweet eyes .
thieves!
otherwise ,  you’d see me blushing about the things you’ve heard me say tonight .
look lively, look lively, my good men!
he is cooling off his horses.
if there are any ,  speak ,  because i offended him .
but as for this ring ,  please excuse me .
alas ,  then she is drowned ?
treason!
i don’t understand what you mean by this.
and the rarest person that ever came there .
god pardon those who are responsible for clarence’s troubles .
this, decius brutus.
someday you can get revenge . —oh ,  you bastard !
lend me your cloak ,  sir thomas .
god knows when we shall meet again .
you’re lear’s shadow .
my  will you come on ,  cousin ?
because i know the government, no matter how angry this makes brabantio with some argument, cannot arrest him safely; because he's embarked with such loud reason to the cyprus wars, which is being discussed even now, that, to save their souls, they have no one of his depth to lead their armies, in which regard, although i hate him as i hate hell pains, i must still show a flag and sign of love, to preserve my present life, which is indeed only sign.
you wrong me even more ,  sir ,  by denying it .
they left me and my servant there ,  tied together .
i would like to prove to you that i am .
listen but don’t speak to it .
you are as wise as you are beautiful .
we'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors .
don’t you recognize me ,  father ?
i want to be this duke’s servant .
farewell ,  farewell .
here comes the good macduff .
the very transfers of his lands will scarcely lie in this box, and must the inheritor himself have no more, huh?
a strange fish !
god defend me from these two !
we are blessed that rome is rid of him.
my lord bassanio gave his ring away to the judge that asked for it, and indeed deserved it too; and then the boy, his clerk, that took some pains in writing, he asked for mine; and neither man nor master would take anything else but the two rings.
by the gods, you’ll eat the poison of your proud temper, even if it splits you, because, from this day on, i'll use you for my entertainment, yes, for my laughter, when you’re spiteful.
where, where, messala, does his body lie?
what time tomorrow should i send someone to you?
not us .
i won’t fight you .
you’re mistaken .
he’s having dinner tonight with a prostitute ,  and i’ll go visit him .
how do you feel ,  laertes ?
whatever happens to me ,  this is a soldier’s kiss .
when your mind is at peace ,  your body is sensitive to the elements .
a friend of antony's .
the portrait of a blinking idiot, presenting me a piece of paper!
noble banquo, who has deserved no less, and must not be known to have done less than macbeth, let me infold you in my arms and stop you to my heart.
their guilt is finally starting to gnaw at them ,  like a slow - acting poison .
yes !
many people ,  men and women alike .
she turned to folly, and she was a whore.
come shake hands with laertes ,  hamlet .
and you ,  sweet hero ?
not so ,  my lord .
i’ll wake him ,  because that’s my job .
i am not a villain.
my lord ?
i’m afraid we shall oversleep in the morning, as much as we stayed up late this night.
not tonight ,  iago .
why ,  don’t be afraid ,  man; i won’t default in payment; within the next two months ,  that's a month before this promise to pay expires ,  i expect to get a return of three times three of the value of this promise to pay .
but i’ve been sent to find the people whose names are written on this list ,  and i can’t read !
i’ll be your wife if you’ll have me .
whose was it?
get up and tell me how you came here .
i’d do it myself ,  but i can’t leave my post .
just to the tower—i’m guessing ,  for the same reason you are: to salute the noble princes who are staying there .
life’s better at
i'll say that that gray streak is not the morning sun ,  it’s only the pale reflection of cynthia's brow; and that’s not the lark whose notes hit the high ceiling of heaven so high above our heads .
don’t let me hold you up, cassius, go if you like; i'll leave you.
argh !
i’ll stand guard with you tonight .
but, like a sickness, i hated the taste this food; but, now healthy, my natural tastes restored, now i wish it, love it, long for it, and will for evermore be true to it.
did this seem ambitious in caesar?
she speaks.
do you think i meant sexual matters?
i wish your horses are swift and sure of foot ,  and so go on for your ride .
it would be much appreciated .
how are you ,  my very beautiful bianca ?
madam ?
this balanced justice returns the ingredients of the gold cup we poisoned to our own lips.
o murderous simpleton!
he’d be quite a monster if his eyes were in his tail .
i have more care to stay than will to go .
enough; stay or get going !
what would you write about me ,  if you should praise me ?
oh ,  it is my love .
within the very flame of love, there lives a kind of wick or snuff that will put it out, and nothing is worse than goodness staying still, for goodness, growing to an infectious flu, dies in his own too much.
and ,  if your wife is not a madwoman ,  and knows how much i have deserved this ring ,  she would not hold out in being your enemy forever for giving it to me .
friends both ,  go get some further assistance .
if they aren’t ,  they can go hang themselves by their own laces !
indeed ,  my lord ,  he is a perfectly wonderful horse .
have all his ventures failed ?
this island belongs to me because sycorax ,  my mother ,  left it to me .
i’ve noticed that they always like to settle and mate where the air is the nicest .
mine ache to think about it .
he’s a coward ,  a total coward .
and so i have lost a noble father, a sister driven into insanity, whose worth, if praises may go back again, stood as a challenger to the most beautiful woman of all time for her perfections.
o ,  are you here ,  iago ?
here's romeo's man .
no ,  advancement to the dignity and height of honor ,  to a high ,  imperial kind of glory .
brutus is wise, and, if he were not in good health, he would do something about it.
away !
in this way, a conscience can make cowards of us all, and in this way the natural color of making up your mind is covered with the pale shadow of thinking, and projects of great substance and significance, and in this regard, their movement turns erratic, and lose the name of action.
for love of god ,  leave him alone !
i’ll cross it, though it kill me.
these lying down and these lowly courtesies might move ordinary men ,  and turn previous laws and the first decree into the laws of children .
amen .
damn it, sir, to bid my old master, the jew, to come to supper tonight with my new master, the christian.
god protect you from them and from other false friends !
and who’s he, then, that says i play the villain?
is that you ,  iago ?
oh ,  you’re wrong .
it is not so now .
no ,  my dearest love ,  i wouldn’t for the world .
but for whose sake did i do that sick deed ?
stand close; this is the same athenian.
which of you does not tremble when you see me ?
where are these bloody thieves?
how?
how are you ,  my ladies ?
please avoid it .
no ,  by the church ,  i haven’t .
passionate ”  ?
i don’t want you to deny this imposition, which my love and some necessity now lays on you.
my dear caius ,  i’ll explain the task at hand to you as we walk toward the man we must do it to .
i swear ,  i’m telling you what i honestly think .
lord gloucester has helped him leave .
i will not .
i see him revive himself to praise my noble act .
o fool !
nothing that interests me ,  my good lord .
to pay five dollars ,  five ,  i wouldn’t farm it ,  and it won’t yield either to norway or the poles a worse rate if it should it be sold in payment .
they still haven’t joined the battle .
who’s there !
this hebrew will become a christian: he’s getting kind.
i can’t ,  my lord .
sir ,  he should have as many as caesar has .
first, i must tell you this desdemona is directly in love with him.
but how can you say that ,  when the king himself says you’re the heir to the danish throne ?
tell me .
take on someone your own size: if you kill me ,  boy ,  you’ll have killed a man .
what ,  ho ,  brabantio !
and now it looks like you need my help .
i am not required to please you with my answer .
good !
i want to be friends with you ,  and forget all the times you’ve embarrassed and humiliated me .
i’ve heard about this indirectly ,  but i will send for him .
is horatio here too ?
if i had written it down on paper ,  i would tear the word from the page .
yes ,  sir .
i wish you would bear your luck like a man!
don’t be lost so badly in your thoughts .
is it really true ?
then what’s antony ?
o ,  unbelievable !
still, it is the plague of great men, they have fewer choices than common men; it is an unshakeable destiny, like death.
time will tell what you’ve got up your sleeve .
it was love that performed these miracles .
first ,  marcus brutus ,  i will shake with you;— next ,  caius cassius ,  i take your hand;— now ,  decius brutus ,  yours;—now yours ,  metellus;— yours ,  cinna;—and ,  my valiant casca ,  yours;— though last ,  not least in love ,  yours ,  good trebonius .
shall i strike at it with my club?
let your highness command me ,  to whom my duties are joined forever with a most unbreakable tie .
although i have slain men during a war ,  i believe it is a grave matter of the conscience to do a premeditated murder .
then how can it be said i am alone when the entire world is here to look at me?
every uncontrolled cup is evil, and the ingredient is a devil.
go quickly to high fortune!
climate was a delicate mistress.
look at you ,  thrashing about like a blind man .
now i’ll go inside and write out a secret order to keep clarence’s brats out of sight and to forbid anyone whatsoever from seeing king edward’s sons .
if you think i come here as a lion ,  shame on me .
don’t you see that i’m out of breath ?
will you come immediately ?
say i will love her everlastingly .
my mistress lies here murdered in her bed.
lorenzo ,  to be sure and my love indeed ,  because who do love i so much ?
o julius caesar ,  you’re mighty yet !
now ,  soldiers ,  advance .
when jacob took care of his uncle laban’s sheep—jacob was the heir to his grandfather abraham’s birthright ,  because his mother cleverly arranged for her husband isaac to make jacob his heir— what’s your point ?
lord alexas ,  sweet alexas ,  most anything alexas ,  almost the most consummate alexas ,  where’s the fortuneteller you recommended so highly to the queen ?
i am calm, sir.
not a jot more ,  my lord .
i wish that no one but me might avenge my cousin's death!
a leathermaker will last nine years .
you’ll be back at two o'clock ?
really ,  the priest was good enough ,  no matter what that old guy said .
even  what ,  were you all snarling before i arrived ,  ready to catch each other by the throat like dogs ,  but now that i’m here ,  you turn your hatred toward me ?
my mother.
and what am i supposed to do in illyria ?
take that ,  and that .
mother, you have offended my father very much.
bloodshed will force you to .
his love is blind and it suits the dark best .
it’s unnatural, even like the deed that's been done.
anything .
who must hang them ?
now i’m afraid we’ve lost your son forever .
leave us .
romeo must die .
the ground indeed is orangey .
it is well done ,  and appropriate for a princess who has descended from so many royal kings .
why ,  that is love's transgression .
oh ,  then i see you’ve been with  who’s queen mab ?
well ,  i must leave her company .
in short, ophelia, don’t believe his vows, because they are pimps, not made of those things which show outside, but mere beggars of unholy courtships, breathing like holy and righteous procurers, the better to deceive you.
that’s enough for me ,  then .
in happy time .
no thanks from his mouth, if it were alive to thank you.
why ,  stay ,  and listen to me speak .
i swear to you by rosalind’s own pretty hand that i am that unfortunate man .
now, mother, what's the matter?
what ?
but before we reached the end point ,  caesar cried ,   “ help me ,  cassius ,  or i will sink !  ”  and just as aeneas ,  the hero who founded rome ,  emerged from the fires of troy with his elderly father anchises on his shoulder ,  so i emerged from the tiber carrying the tired caesar .
have you seen him today ?
yes .
why ,  may i ask ?
yes ,  so ,  god be with you !
it would be just like a nice daydream or fantasy .
i’m trinculo—don’t be scared—your good friend trinculo .
this lantern represents the horned moon; i myself seem to be the man in the moon.
i am a villain .
would you mind if we woke up the king ?
huh !
o good horatio, what a wounded name that is, things left unknown like this, shall live after me!
we will go from here to inverness, and then we will bind us further to you.
come ,  how would you praise me ?
i wasn’t talking to any man at that time ,  my lord .
exactly ,  madam ,  until i sleep with you .
we'll start rumors that praise your excellence and exaggerate the fame the frenchman gave you ,  bring you together in the end ,  and place bets on your fight .
i know you’d never skip school .
not for your entire fairy kingdom.
we'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings, i have it!
why should i play the roman fool and die on my own sword ?
come ,  dolabella .
why ,  what if they are vile and false ,  where's that palace that foul things sometimes intrude ?
come over here ,  nurse .
i will read it .
as i remember ,  henry the sixth prophesied that richmond would be king when richmond was only a foolish little boy .
it doesn’t need to be witty as long as it’s eloquent and imaginative .
o sorrowful time !
sweets to the sweet .
had all his hairs been lives ,  my great revenge had stomach for them all .
kill brutus and be honored by the killing .
i’ll leave you for now .
searching the window for a match, i found this paper sealed up like this, and i’m sure it wasn’t there when i went to bed.
what ,  of venice ?
your head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat; and your head has even been beaten like a rotten egg for quarrelling.
my door is locked .
leave me ,  my friend .
yet, countrymen, o, still hold up your heads!
what’s your name ?
now i am no more than a woman ,  ruled by the same lowly passion as the maid who milks and does the humblest chores .
tell your men as much .
i don’t understand you ,  my lord .
so he is now in getting any bold or noble job done; however, he pretends to be slow in nature.
i eat the air, crammed with promises.
no.
and i’ll neigh like a horse and bark like a hound and grunt like a pig and roar like a bear and burn like a fire at every turn .
these cowards manage to make fools of brave men .
heaven preserve you!
dead, dead?
the excuse you make to delay the news is longer than the news itself .
where was she born?
prepare yourselves ,  generals .
yes ,  madam ,  but he’ll be back tonight .
take away your hand!
therefore, as i am supposed to, receive it from me.
you could be great; you are not without ambition ,  only without the drive should usually goes with it .
to all ,  our thanks .
hum!
hope with good cause is swift; it flies as fast as a swallow .
macduff, this noble passion, child of integrity, has wiped the black scruples from my soul, and reconciled my thoughts to your good truth and honor.
you’ll see that you’re both wrong.
let him bless you too.
but when exactly will we see benedick married ?
i’m as commanding as she is proud ,  and when two raging fires meet ,  they end up consuming the very thing that kindled them .
what ,  ho !
who am i ,  sir ?
which their keepers call a lightening before death .
demetrius and egeus ,  go ahead; i must ask you to do a few things about the wedding ,  and meet with you about some issues that affect you .
give me my fishing rod .
don’t insult me with your distrust .
what do you mean ,  your highness ?
by this leek ,  i swear i’ll make you pay for this .
i’m not such an idiot that i can’t keep my hands dry .
do you really think so ?
o, let the heavens give him defense against the elements, because i have lost him on a dangerous sea!
by god ,  i wouldn’t lose as much honor as a single man more would cost me ,  i think—not even if it meant giving up my best hope for victory .
this way, my lord; the castle's gently surrounded.
ok ,  i’ll do it .
you know where i live.
don’t refuse it .
the thief gone with so much, and so much to find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge; or only bad luck stirring and sits on my shoulders; no sighs except the ones i’m breathing; no tears except the ones i’m shedding.
then tell me if antonio can be called a brother .
my noble lords and relatives ,  good morning .
listen to him talk about war ,  and you’ll hear elegant and thrilling accounts of the battles .
i will ,  sir .
i must wake you up.
no one .
go ahead if you want ,  but remember that crying doesn’t suit a man .
at nine in the morning, we'll meet here again.
speak ,  hands ,  for me !
here comes lorenzo; more about this later .
i will.
do it now .
you must not go without having a drink first .
it is a trade ,  sir ,  that i practice with a clear conscience .
by - and - by is easily said .
my master is standing out in the street !
and don’t only see his vice; it is a proper contradiction to his virtue ,  the one is as long as the other .
hello ,  sir .
these are frightening odds .
o child!
good to see you ,  iago .
either my eyes deceive me ,  or i see two husbands .
no, let's follow him.
wait a minute ,  gentlemen .
my father’s dead ,  and his fortune is mine now .
if i can disguise my voice as well as my appearance ,  then i’ll be able to carry out my plan perfectly .
the old proverb is very well parted between my master shylock and you, sir: you have the grace of god, sir, and he has enough.
bring out the stocks !
you may convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty ,  and yet seem cold ,  the time you may so deceive .
i’m sure there was a herd of lions nearby .
these are tricks of the imagination ,  and this place is filled with magicians .
it was a sweet wedding ,  and we were doing so well on our return .
for heaven's sake ,  help me !
my brother whom—aside from you—i loved more than anyone else in the world ,  i trusted to run my state ,  which at that time was the strongest in the land ,  and prospero the number one duke ,  famous for my dignity and my education .
despised ,  distressed ,  hated ,  martyred ,  killed !
shut up ,  you doddering old wizard !
aren’t you the guy that scares the maidens of the village; skims cream from milk, and sometimes works the churn, and, bootless, makes the breathless housewife churn even harder; and sometimes makes the drink so that it doesn’t have a yeasty foam; misleads wanderers who are out at night, laughing at their getting lost?
ho, ho, ho, ho!
what’s the message from the english king ?
now he’s saying how she took him into our bedroom .
what time is it ?
at such a time, i’ll make sure my daughter meets him.
our general put us early like this for the love of his desdemona, whom we won’t blame.
he stayed like that a long time .
pretty soul!
you shall see many a duteous and knee-bending rogue that, doting on his own obedient slavery, wears himself out, much like his master's ass, for nothing but dry oats; and when he's old, dismissed from the service.
and you’re covered in blood?
yes ,  but swear by my sword this time .
i beg you ,  keep up your jokes .
my lord constable ,  are those stars or suns i saw on the armor in your tent tonight ?
my good lysander!
well said.
sir ,  welcome to our house .
please don’t let his youth be an impediment to giving him the utmost respect ,  because i never knew so young a body with so old a head .
please ,  my king ,  be quiet .
boy ,  run to the senate - house; don’t wait to answer me ,  but get going .
the poor monster's my subject ,  and he shall not suffer indignity .
no ,  i won’t stay a second longer .
well ,  it seems to me that she is too short to be praised highly ,  too dark to be praised fairly ,  and too small to be praised greatly .
oh grim-looked night!
is the king awake ,  worthy thane ?
you rudely snuck out of bed .
the noise is coming from over there .
hey ,  naked guy— poor tom’s chilly .
with cassio ,  mistress .
here .
leave me alone .
that’s good .
you will  and what if he won’t stop ?
good friends ,  go in ,  and taste some wine with me; and we ,  like friends ,  will go ahead together straightaway .
now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die .
if ,  then ,  that friend demands to know why i rose up against caesar ,  this is my answer: it’s not that i loved caesar less ,  but that i loved rome more .
come ,  here’s some sauce to go with it .
all very upset, with pindarus his slave, on this hill.
how should they, when wise men have no eyes?
it is a monster fathered by itself ,  born of itself .
octavius ,  lead your battle quietly on ,  on the left hand of the even field .
i must stop you ,  cimber .
in any case ,  let thisbe have clean linen; and don’t let him that plays the lion cut his nails ,  because they shall hang out for the lion's claws .
for all the rest ,  let lion ,  moonshine ,  wall ,  and the two lovers ,  tell you while they stay here .
every person i meet greets me like an old friend ,  and every one of them knows my name .
well then, another prologue must say that he is not really a lion.
don’t wrong her birth .
are you going to write antony about this ?
i have heard the rooster, that is the trumpet of the morning, with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat, awakes the god of day, and, at his warning, whether in sea or fire, in earth or air, the straying and wandering spirit hurries back to his grave.
this lion is a very fox for his courage .
then tell what you know about all of this .
well, think of marriage now.
i beg you ,  stop making curtsies ,  good sir .
my wife killed too?
what ,  are we playing with interjections ?
that’s not good; i don’t like it.
if the earth could be flooded with woman's tears, each drop she lets fall would prove to be a crocodile.
duke of burgundy ,  if you want peace ,  the lack of which creates these misfortunes you describe ,  you must purchase it buy agreeing across - the - board to all our very just demands .
it might happen that these strange signs ,  the unusual terror of this night ,  and the urgings of his fortune - tellers will keep him away from the capitol today .
god mark you for his grace !
no, but listen to me: pardon this fault, and, by my soul, i swear i will never again break an oath made to you.
hey, lucius!
there are no tricks in plain and simple trust ,  but hollow men ,  like horses very eager about something ,  make gallant show and promises of their spirit ,  but ,  when they are supposed to endure a spur that will make them bleed ,  they are humbled ,  and ,  like false ,  worthless horses disappear from the fight .
let it be so .
i am still a virgin; i have never gone back on my word ,  scarcely have wanted what was my own ,  at no time broke a promise ,  would not betray the devil to his fellow ,  and delight more in truth than life .
what are you saying ,  cordelia ?
no ,  no .
shut up ,  fool .
the foul plan backfired on me .
would i ever deny you anything ?
aside] poor worm!
i’d rather have lost my legs in battle than be a part of this !
no ,  wait .
your answer ?
give me some help .
when i told you that i had nothing, i should have told you then that i had less than nothing, because indeed i have indebted myself to a dear friend, indebted my friend to his notorious enemy, to feed my needs.
say ,   “ that splendid antony .  ”  the courageous caesar !
i think this country is so kind that if it weren’t for
though the last time i saw him it was black from the smoke of war .
i’m no more insane than you are ,  and i’ll prove it .
that’s right ,  or drinking ,  swearing ,  fist - fighting ,  visiting prostitutes—that kind of thing .
caesar is in a sober mood .
moreover ,  out of mercy ,  the constable urges you to remind your men to make their peace with god and repent ,  so that their souls may depart sweetly and peacefully from these fields where ,  poor wretches ,  their bodies will likely fall and fester .
it usually only lasts about twenty seconds .
you don’t want to eat ,  sir ?
yes ,  if it doesn’t stand still .
my master is the great rich capulet; and if you are not of the house of montagues, please, come and have a cup of wine.
othello ,  have one of your officers stay behind to bring you your commission and whatever else is important to you .
i’m sure he’s out there dancing .
what i’m saying can’t anger him .
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  fire burn ,  and cauldron bubble .
mark antony is in your tents ,  my lord .
when the wind is from the south, i know a hawk from a handsaw.
good man, even now, remember whom you have aboard.
in this wicked world ,  criminals often take the money they stole and use it to buy off the law ,  shoving justice aside .
one of them contains my picture .
i hope you’re not trying to cheat me .
murder and treason !
where's this girl ?
who comes so quickly in silence of the night ?
my name is decretus .
yes,” said my husband, ”you fell on your face?
i have a reasonable good musical ear; let’s sing and dance.
how is it with you ,  my lord ?
just as i told you ,  he usually sleeps in the afternoon .
my dear lord ,  you know how passionately stubborn the duke is .
you know, antonio, how much i have wasted my money by putting on a fancier appearance than my small funds could support; i don’t come to you now to ask that you forgive my debts, because my chief concern is to make good on these great debts which my behavior, sometimes reckless and wasteful, has left me broke.
now let’s sit closely around this candle and discuss our needs .
oh ,  the things men dare to do !
if you are so fickle, what do you want with a guy who is known for his faith?
good day to you ,  sir .
i promise you your relatives have made my eyes water before now .
how is it, michael, that you have forgotten yourself?
i hope to god i’m wrong about your chances .
keep the men moving.
i have wasted myself out of my money.
mark antony ,  should we give the signal to attack ?
yes ,  my lord .
how oddly it will sound that i must ask my child for forgiveness !
very strangely ,  they say .
eros ,  send his treasure to him .
for ,  by my faith ,  i cannot reason .
i do beg you ,  give him permission to go .
no ,  if there were two such fellows ,  we should have none shortly ,  because one would kill the other .
is your news good or bad ?
o ,  i am slain !
i don’t feel like going .
therefore ,  do your duty and take your reward ,  because my master and mistress are nearly frozen to death .
let me be satisfied, is it good or bad?
the duke and senators of venice greet you .
capulet, montague, see what a cruel calamity is caused your hate, that heaven finds a way to kill your joys with love!
alas ,  what's the matter ?
no ,  none that you’re smart enough to make .
but ,  for sure ,  the bravery of his grief put me into a towering passion .
is this your good friend who’s in so much trouble ?
nature is short in love, and where it is short, it sends some precious moment of itself close to the thing it loves.
but i’m sorry i’ve blurted all this out .
do i ,  sir ?
this is the perfect place to rehearse .
why do you keep to yourself, making the worst imaginings your companions, thinking those thoughts which should indeed have died with the dead ones you’re thinking about?
very true; therefore look well for it .
i am speechless.
i confess my crime and throw myself on your highness’s mercy .
one of my friends traveled with him, who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more breath to deliver his message.
when i was with him ,  i heard him swear to tubal and to chus ,  his countrymen ,  that he would rather have antonio's flesh than twenty times the value of the sum that he owed him; and i know ,  my lord ,  if law ,  authority ,  and power ,  don’t deny him ,  it will go hard with poor antonio .
i am dying ! —my lord ,  you still have one eye left to see cornwall punished .
what’s this man’s reputation like here in the city ?
i am poisoned.
o you othello ,  that was once so good ,  fallen in the plan of a damned slave ,  what shall be said to you ?
caesar ,  i never believed in omens ,  yet now they frighten me .
i beg you, come; will you?
you have a beautiful half - sister ,  octavia .
i can’t figure it out by myself !
friar !
well moused ,  lion .
whether you are sad or merry ,  the intensity of either suits you like no one else  .   .   .
has it come to this ?
where are your tenants and your followers ?
where is the beauteous majesty of denmark?
get going.
there are some such ,  no doubt .
that’s a deal .
there wasn’t a soul that only felt a fever of the madness and played some tricks out of desperation .
i have to eat my dinner now .
but pardon me.
what should i do ?
o worthiest cousin!
think about it .
what do you mean, caesar?
and mine two hundred.
you are too like the spirit of banquo.
enough; stay or get going!
and don’t be angry with me, gentle brutus; i wish i were a common comedian, or used to urinating on my friendship with ordinary oaths to every new opponent; if you know that i show false friendship to some men, and hug them hard and after that, tell lies about them, or if you know that i profess myself at feasts to be friends with the entire place, then think about me dangerous.
hold off your hands.
this same skull ,  sir ,  was yorick's skull ,  the king's jester .
silenced with that story ,  and reviewing all the events of the day ,  he found you in the stout norwegian’s ranks ,  not afraid of what you did or the strange images of death .
he will live as a cursed man .
madman !
why, your lieutenant, cassio.
didn’t great caesar bleed for the sake of justice ?
if it will not speak, then i will follow it.
certainly not !
i never saw this before .
don’t find any ,  conspiracy; hide it in smiles and friendliness ,  because ,  if you pass ,  your real face on ,  not even the dark place between heaven and hell itself is dim enough to hide you from being stopped .
he did, from first to last.
how does your honor ?
i’ll follow the priest and go with you; and after i’ve sworn to be faithful ,  i’ll be faithful forever .
and when you saw his chariot appear, haven’t you made one great big shout that was so loud the tiber river trembled underneath her banks to hear the echo of your sounds that bounced off her hollow shores?
i know the hand; in faith ,  it’s a beautiful hand ,  and the beautiful hand that wrote it is whiter than the paper it’s written on .
and even for that, i love you all the more.
they both begin with the letter  “ r .  ”  ah ,  you jokester—that’s the dog’s name .
you sound out of tune .
and ,  for your life ,  let justice be blamed .
what ,  are you dead ,  my dove ?
what horrible thing are you imagining ?
what if she’s pretty but stupid ?
my lord ,  you acted once when you were in the university ,  you say ?
who's there ,  in the name of the devil ?
who's there ?
the air smells light and sweet to our gentle senses .
you’re going to die .
we don’t need a ghost ,  my lord ,  to come from the grave to tell us this .
emilia ,  come .
he can’t bear his grief and so he’s losing his mind .
i’ll be right with you .
well ,  she can get used to it .
i remember his face well .
where have you been ,  sister ?
cursed be my tribe of israel if i forgive him !
a wandering knight ?
that’s the one part of my service on land i do deny .
he speaks bluntly ,  madam .
i shall win at the odds .
well ,  i’ll there .
right away.
oh ,  you streetwalker !
not now, sweet desdemon; some other time.
is it your dear friend that is in trouble like this?
where did she die ?
can god be so jealous and hateful ?
o strange!
he shall not live; look ,  i condemn him with a check .
your mother’s been poisoned .
well ,  i won’t .
if she is beautiful and wise, beauty and wit, the one's for use, the other uses it.
couple of days or not, of all days in the year, come the middle of july, she’ll be fourteen.
if they have spoken the truth about hero ,  i will tear her apart with my bare hands .
apparently you think there’s nothing unusual about a bloody head .
no .
othello, leave some officer behind, and he shall bring our commission to you, with such things of quality and respect as are important to you.
may god in his mercy forgive you .
my good friends, listen!
we’re here to say  “ amen ”  to that .
i’ve already told you quite plainly that my daughter will never marry you .
exit romeo.
i say, we will have no more marriages.
why ,  here is the order to prove it .
unless you can also teach me how to forget my banished father ,  you shouldn’t try to teach me how to be happy .
his feelings don’t move in that direction .
how long do you plan to stay here in this forest ?
didn’t i turn down the page where i left off reading ?
those friends you have, and their friendship tested, anchor them to your soul with hoops of steel, but don’t spend your money on entertaining each newly acquired, unproven friend.
your life is stretched to its limit .
let’s have your applause, if we are friends, and robin shall make good on his promise.
is it so ?
she swoons to see them bleed .
when these mutual things lead the way ,  the teacher and the main exercise follow close behind ,  to the obvious conclusion .
i’ll tell you ,  cassius ,  you yourself have been called greedy and been accused of giving your positions to undeserving men in exchange for gold .
and he did .
and neither will i until i see mine again .
you defend yourself by blaming my judgment ,  but you’re just making up feeble excuses .
why do you stay ?
i can’t imagine what’s made him so unlike himself ,  other than his father’s death .
give me my long sword ,  hey !
o ,  he's the courageous captain of compliments .
thank god i’m not a woman and afflicted with all the giddiness that troubles that entire sex .
let’s give them room .
and you told me bury love .
but why did you leave me so unkindly?
my uncle is king of denmark ,  and the same people who made fun of him while my father was still alive are now rushing to pay twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats apiece for miniature portraits of him .
do you hear me?
good night .
and to what ?
i say she shall . —and first begin with her .
look ,  if you really love the beautiful hero ,  enjoy it .
i’ll stop so you can reply .
i’ll play this bout first, put it aside a while.
here’s why: it’d be better for the enemy to come after us .
have mercy ,  jesus ! —wait ,  i was only dreaming .
you say well .
did i?
flies are like free men ,  but i have been banished .
i’ll die  you’re of royal blood ,  and we obey you .
why should you fall into so deep a moan ?
if he looks serious ,  he must need money .
my countryman, but i still don’t know him.
no more moving ?
then tell me ,  who's the next heir of naples ?
but you turn that sun into a shadow .
as far as i know ,  he’s not even dead .
if they refuse to come ,  get physical—use a whip if you have to ,  but get them out here to their husbands .
but, look, the morning, dressed in a red cape, walks over the dew of that high hill in the east.
he has the courage to do a lot, and, in that unconquerable temper of his mind, he has a wisdom that guides his courage to act in safety.
that is because the traitor murderer lives .
master ,  i’m all tied up for you .
when you’ve finished ,  you’ll be a happy man .
he’s a dreamer; let’s get away from him .
my mother had a maid called barbara; she was in love; and the man she loved went crazy and left her.
many of antonio's creditors came with me to venice ,  swearing he can only go broke .
good friends ,  go in and have some wine with me .
the one who chooses me will get what he deserves ”  !
how else is he the  “ man in the moon ”  ?
when the sun sets ,  the air drizzles dew ,  but for the funeral of my brother's son it pours rain .
for you ,  mistress ,  save you your labor .
orlando sends his regards to you both ,  and he sends this bloody handkerchief to the boy he calls  “ his rosalind .  ”  is that you ?
watch him closely .
who was with them last ?
no ,  good sir toby .
how are you now ,  lieutenant ?
foolish girl ,  in the eyes of most people this man’s a caliban ,  and compared to him ,  they’re angels .
with lysander ?
greetings ,  my lady ,  and may god always be with you .
god ,  god ,  forgive us all !
why did cassius conspire against caesar ?
flower with this purple dye ,  hit by cupid's arrow ,  sink into the apple of his eye !
i wish you could !
damn ,  damn !
will you give her up ?
that’s why your daughter and son - in - law are punishing me shamefully .
leaving you is a thousand times worse than being near you .
don’t speak ,  don’t reply ,  don’t answer me .
things have certainly changed !
if we’re all pork - eaters ,  we won’t be able to get our hands on a slice of bacon ,  even if we’ve got the money for it .
the lord grandpré .
the ambassadors from norway, my good lord, are joyfully returned.
that’s him .
when prospero is destroyed.
what does that mean ,  my lord ?
let me see her .
you sent me to the port to find a ship .
we go around the globe ,  swifter than the wandering moon .
i’m not telling a lie.
come on.
this is not a maiden ,  as you say ,  but an old man—wrinkled ,  faded ,  and withered .
how then ?
now, good metellus, go ask him.
have his daughters made him crazy like this ? —couldn’t you have kept something for yourself ?
yeah ,  you have been a real weasel in your time ,  but i will watch you to keep you from staying up all night now .
it is very proper the lord bassanio live an upright life ,  because ,  having such a blessing in his lady ,  he finds the joys of heaven here on earth; and if he doesn’t merit it on earth ,  it stands to reason he should never enter heaven .
witness the hole you made in caesar's heart, crying, "long live!
welcome ,  dear madam .
my leg’s been cut in two .
here comes the little villain herself .
where is the count’s page who called the guards ?
do you know his plans ?
my friends ,  listen .
on the outs with the girl i love .
i recognize a natural and prompt speed that i find in hardness, and undertake these present wars against the ottoman.
i know what i’m talking about .
why, i will fight with him upon this theme until my eyelids will no longer blink.
i’ll be damned if the duke wouldn’t have given him six pence a day for playing pyramus .
he came to scatter flowers on his lady's grave, and asked me to stand off to the side, and so i did.
how green!
here’s someone coming in his pajamas ,  with a candle and weapons .
yes ,  so he says .
shame on romeo !
rather seek to be hanged in planning your joy than to be drowned and go without her .
offspring of a witch ,  come here !
you’ll be lord of the island then ,  and i’ll be your servant .
with the handicap they’ve given me ,  i think i’ll win .
you’re a fellow of a good respect; your life has some smack of honor in it.
what do you say?
now ,  sir ,  judge it for yourself whether or i am better suited in any beautiful terms to love the moor .
a drum, a drum!
who is nothing to you in this kind of merry joking, so you may continue and still laugh at nothing.
so what if he loves your hermia?
i say my daughter is my flesh and my blood.
will you hear some music ,  my sweet love ?
he lies tonight within twenty - one miles of rome .
gentlemen ,  on to the bridal dinner .
i am no prostitute, but have life as honest as you that abuse me like this.
lord ,  ”  he calls you ?
by mary, this is miching mallecho, it means mischief.
any man who knows how to write can answer a letter .
i’m losing this duel of wits .
we will go quickly .
madam!
i said, an elder soldier, not a better.
write to him from us; send it very ,  very quickly .
this is her very disguise ,  and ,  upon my life ,  fast asleep .
master ,  knock hard upon the door .
i am hers: only, oh!
is his army coming?
good - bye ,  kind charmian .
the king my father ?  !
what does she need?
as crazy as the sea and wind ,  when both fight over which is mightier .
get on your nightgown ,  in case we are called by chance and it shows us to be watchers .
who is this bloody man ?
to testify is not proof ,  without wider and more open tests than these thin habits and poor probabilities of modern liking prefer against him .
just because i act familiar with you sometimes and let you fool around and joke with me ,  you try to take advantage of my affection .
for shame ,  bring juliet out; her lord is here .
for what purpose ,  sir ,  i beg you ?
i beg you, be firm with him.
yes ?
come, sit down, every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
and subjects of the dane.
true and a goose for his secret - keeping .
let me refer to a proverb that may help you forgive these lovers: if you can’t change something ,  don’t cry about it .
the cure for confusion is not yelling and screaming .
and didn’t they place the wreath of victory on my brow and order me to give it to you ?
your clarence ,  who stabbed my edward ,  is also dead .
when i came back, for this was brief,--i found them close together, everyone was fighting, even as again they were when you yourself parted them.
if a jew wrongs a christian ,  what is his option ?
please don’t mock me ,  fellow - student .
life's only a walking shadow; a bad actor ,  that struts and worries about his hour onstage ,  and then is not heard from again .
oh ,  it’s too terrible .
who is it you mean ?
never mind .
the duke’s in a meeting right now ,  and he’s sent for you too .
my lord loves you .
scarcity and want shall ignore you; ceres' blessing so be on you.
i’ll sleep over here .
things that are bad make strong themselves by ill .
then all alone at the prearranged hour of her waking up ,  i came to take her from her relative's tomb ,  intending to keep her close at my cell until i could easily send for romeo .
we came into the world as brother and brother ,  so now let’s enter hand in hand—not one before the other .
but ,  however you pursue this revenge ,  don’t taint your mind ,  or let your soul plan anything against your mother .
it is written that the shoemaker should meddle with his measuring tape and the tailor with his shoe form ,  the fisher with his pencil ,  and the painter with his nets; but i am sent to find the people whose names are written here ,  and i cannot read what names the writing person has written here .
when they choose ,  they only know how to lose .
not bad; you might accomplish something .
signior angelo ,  please excuse us .
our royal master's murdered !
oh ho ,  oh ho !
bring in my lord.
so please ,  most gracious duke ,  order her to bring him out so we can get him some help .
alas ,  you misunderstood everything !
what says the golden chest?
there isn’t much time .
what a pain .
what’s his name ?
i may dismiss this court by my power ,  unless bellario ,  a learned doctor ,  whom i have sent for to determine this ,  comes here today .
there’s no place i’d rather die than here by caesar ,  and no manner of death would please me more than being stabbed by you ,  the masters of this new era .
he will, if he lives to be a man.
my lord ,  i don’t know ,  but i truly fear it .
i’ll use albany’s power and authority for now to win the war ,  but afterward one of the sisters—whichever one wants to—can get rid of him .
you get your money’s worth of sleep now .
i’ll leave you without revealing any emotion ,  like a man of steel .
it’s nice you’re offering to sacrifice her behind her back .
i was about to swear that i loved you .
in that case it’s like the words of an unpaid lawyer .
come, my dear love, the purchase made, the fruits are to follow, that profit is still to come between me and you.
isn’t their ingratitude like the mouth biting the hand that feeds it ?
lazy people end up at the bottom ,  and you deserve to be at the top .
give them the swords ,  young osric .
if you pay too much attention to him you’ll make him angry ,  and that will make his convulsions go on longer .
shall we to the court?
since she belongs to me ,  i may dispose of her ,  which shall be either to this gentleman or to her death ,  according to our law which is fit to these circumstances .
it is for the dead, not for the quick, therefore you lie.
a day as black as this has never been seen!
i’ll do all that .
well ,  sir ,  and you ,  witty lady ,  who gave me quite a turn with your strange talk ,  my name is vincentio ,  my hometown pisa ,  and i am traveling to padua to visit a son of mine whom i haven’t seen in a long while .
his secret-keeping, i am sure, cannot carry his courage, because the goose cannot carry the fox.
fear will keep you safe .
oh ,  wise young judge ,  how i honor you !
stop!
it was about to speak ,  when the rooster crowed .
where did they vanished to ?
oh ,  a thousand times worse ,  a thousand times—and what a sweet personality she has !
she’s a perfect woman ,  it’s true .
i’ll go no further.
oh ,  help me ,  anyone who wants to live long !
why are you wringing your hands?
don’t tell me; i don’t like it at all that you ,  iago ,  who has used my purse as if the strings were yours ,  should know about this .
servant, a word with you.
the lunatic, the lover, and the poet are all compact in their imagination.
good - bye to you ,  the last of all the romans .
i thank you all for your trouble and courtesy .
i’ll look over the inscriptions again .
don’t look for your noble father on the ground forever with sad eyes .
they mean to warn us here at philippi, answering us before we demand answers of them.
however ,  this is an extreme situation ,  and it’s more important to control it than to worry about how you’ll look .
i’m annoyed lately with different passions, ideas that only i can know, which are perhaps seen in my behavior; but don’t let my good friends be upset— cassius, you’re one of them— or try to understand my indifference any further than that poor brutus, at war with himself, forgets to show friendship to other men.
let me go in to see the generals.
nah ,  i’ll never be aware of my own wit ,  until i break my shins on it .
but you don’t have any of the symptoms my uncle told me about .
what ,  is the man insane ?
rise up as you would from your graves ,  and walk like spirits to see this horror !
approach the chamber, and destroy your sight with a new monster to turn you to stone.
you belong to her .
something’s wrong .
then don’t tell me not to sleep by your side ,  because in sleeping near you ,  hermia ,  i do not lie .
don’t learn from him ,  emilia ,  although he is your husband .
follow them straight to the cottage .
not where he eats, but where he is eaten.
listen ,  she speaks .
what things ,  my lord ?
madam ,  he’s well .
follow me then .
you take that, too.
you unwashed farmworker !
surely it’s some matter of state, either from venice or some minor problem shown to him here in cyprus, that has muddied his clear spirit, and in such cases men's natures fight with inferior things, although their object is great ones.
o villainous!
well, my lord.
a common slave—you’d know him well by sight— held up his left hand ,  which flamed and burned like twenty torches all together ,  and yet his hand ,  not feeling any fire ,  wasn’t even scorched .
you can’t trust all the rumors .
it would be inappropriate—dangerous ,  even—for me to be seen working against the moor ,  as i would if i stayed .
it waves me forward again.
i pardon him ,  with all my heart; and yet no man like him makes my heart so sad .
prostitute, i’m coming!
very heathenish and very gross !
i cannot blame you now for weeping .
how are you, laertes?
the king's in bed .
why, if two gods should play some heavenly match, and place a bet on two earthly women, and portia is one of them, there must be something else to bet on with the other, because the poor rude world does not have her equal.
will you play on this pipe ?
the biggest clue is his seriousness .
had you your sanity, and you persuaded me to revenge, it couldn’t move like this.
sleep dwell upon your eyes, peace in your breast!
let george stanley die after the battle .
the smell of leek turns my stomach .
madam ,  oh ,  good empress !
god, we are her privates.
good hamlet ,  take off your black looks ,  and let your eye look on the king like a friend .
it was a color he never did like .
give me the proof i can see; or ,  by the worth of man's eternal soul ,  you would’ve been better born a dog than answer my aroused anger !
i’m sorry ,  sir ,  but in this war i consider you a subordinate ,  not my equal .
when we’re faced with a wretched person ,  bruised and crying with hardship ,  we try to get them to shush up .
wolfish - rabid lamb !
just tell me .
peace there!
very well ,  thank you .
get going, i say; you shall know more later; no, get going.
come, sir, get going.
or be alive again, and challenge me to fight you in the desert with your sword.
no ,  i’d rather be married to a skull with a bone in its mouth than to either of those men .
i don’t like to see misery over-played, and duty dying in his service.
signor bassanio !
let’s go see the king .
let’s see .
why ,  what a king is this !
to hell with this idiot !
cicero too ?
i know it’s foolish to be so much in love ,  but i can’t help it .
what part of the agreement did i break ?
what a fool i’ve been !
it won’t make me jealous, to say my wife is beautiful, cooks well, loves company, is free of speech, sings, plays, and dances well; where virtue is, these are more virtuous.
i beg you, keep up your jokes.
good sir, this ring was given me by my wife; and, when she put it on, she made me vow that i should not sell, or give, or lose it.
and, which is worse, all you have done has been only for a wayward son, spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do, loves for his own ends, not for you.
you men are rank beginners !
here comes lorenzo; more about this later.
it is too late .
the visitor won’t abandon him like that .
now go ,  leave me .
you’re shaking with emotion .
therefore ,  all lovers should speak for themselves .
no ,  vain illusion ,  so intricately bound up with a king’s rest .
i must be idle .
you shall find me easy enough for that ,  sir ,  if you will give me the opportunity .
do you like the plot, trinculo?
by and by .
nobody will hurt us .
what, hello!
o ,  he is crazy ,  laertes .
good girl ,  give it to me .
cousins, i hope the days are near at hand that our homes will be safe.
don’t presume too much about my friendship; i may do something that i’ll be sorry for .
break out ,  civil war erupts ,  kings are betrayed ,  and the bond between father and son snaps .
tomorrow is wednesday .
you call this sneering ?
let’s follow the old earl ,  and get that crazy tom to take him wherever he wants to go .
and too soon marred are those made young mothers .
oberon is really angry and annoyed, because she, just like her attendant, has a lovely boy, that was stolen from an indian king; she has never had so sweet a baby that was stolen.
keep the men moving .
yoo - hoo !
it doesn’t excuse your cruel behavior .
may god and his angels guard your sacred throne and grant that you dignify it for a long time .
saint francis be my speed!
you have made a major mistake ,  and laid the love - juice on some true - love's sight .
you know sometimes he walks for hours and hours here in the lobby .
what devil are you that torments me like this ?
excuse me ,  sir ,  do you know anything about this ?
have the excavators stopped work ?
news, lads!
to work as a servant .
then it is most likely that the crown will fall upon macbeth.
yes ,  and wall too .
from my house ,  if i had a house— ”   “ the sixth of july .
don’t try to tempt me !
what rhubarb ,  senna ,  or other purgative drugs ,  would do keep these english here healthy ?
i don’t think a ridiculous pyramus like that one deserves much moaning .
dear son ,  you’re alive !
o cassius ,  if you could only persuade the noble brutus to join us— don’t worry .
who among us stabbed him for any cause but justice ?
if you only knew how you appreciate the purpose while you mock it like this !
she’d laugh me right out of my body and kill me with her wit .
his counselors will govern as long as he’s a minor ,  and then he’ll take over .
say the last word i spoke was  “ antony ,  ”  and please word it pathetically .
o ,  my fear interprets !
but do this: find your brother ,  wherever he is .
did he tell macduff to return to scotland ?
high and mighty, you shall know i am set naked on your kingdom.
come on .
no ,  he didn’t get any by me .
the king never sighed by himself, but with the whole country’s groan.
what less than the end of the world is the prince's sentence ?
ah - ha !
your fault our law calls death; but the kind prince ,  taking your part ,  has brushed aside the law ,  and turned that black word  “ death ”  to banishment .
let your highness command me, to whom my duties are joined forever with a most unbreakable tie.
should we see what he thinks ?
go away .
no ,  my lord ,  your polite words are not to the point .
enough ,  gentlemen .
liberty !
now i must return to the wedding .
swear.
well ,  go along now .
lysander's love ,  that would not let him wait , — fair helena , —who makes the night more golden than all the fiery rays and eyes of light .
the moon looks sad to me .
do you want to exchange fathers ?
what needs to be done?
it’s sad ,  but iago knows she had sex with cassio a thousand times .
our day is gone; come clouds, dews, and dangers; our deeds are done!
i beg you ,  have some charity for my wit; don’t think it is so unwholesome .
if your messenger can’t find him there, look for him in the other place yourself.
i wish i could work for that lady !
let’s do it.
and talk like a parrot?
nurse ,  where’s my daughter ?
and ,  until she comes ,  as truly as i confess the vices of my blood to heaven ,  so i'll present truthfully ,  to your hearing ,  how i thrived in this beautiful lady's love ,  and she in mine .
good question ,  girl: my tale invites that question .
don’t hang on my clothes.
i’m as good a gentleman as the emperor .
go .
good .
all of us have reason to mourn the dimming of our shining star the king .
we’ll start a fire .
oh ,  you’re sticking a dagger in me !
why, what did i do?
why ,  what’s the danger ?
then she has sworn to remain a virgin ?
thanks for letting me go .
what's here?
what about you ?
i’m to blame to be waited for like this . — now ,  cinna;—now ,  metellus;—what ,  trebonius !
saints don’t move ,  even when they grant prayers .
her curses have made my hair stand on end .
why are you looking for me ?
the earth sings when he touches it .
tell them to capture me ,  then sell my bones .
if it’s work for a man ,  i’ll do it .
if i were you with eyes and a tongue to speak with ,  i’d crack heaven wide open with my laments !
be as lazy and neglectful as you like around him—you and the other servants .
you look pale and wild ,  and these signs some bad luck .
you know ,  you’re right .
was that the caius cassius that i knew ?
you should know i’ve earned a thousand gold pieces from don john .
i’ll have none of it.
never, my lord.
well ,  to wear out their shoes and get myself more work .
wait ,  and listen to me ,  countrymen .
what are you waiting for ,  lords of france ?
i beg you, although you mock me, gentlemen, don’t let her hurt me.
sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet nurse ,  tell me ,  what does my love say ?
farewell ,  dear father .
so be quiet .
come out of your sockets, eyes!
but where was this ?
if he loves caesar ,  then he can only hurt himself—by grieving and dying for caesar .
but surely you’re not planning to
i am your own forever.
write them down together; your name is just as good; say them out loud; your name sounds just as good; think about their importance, yours is just as important; use them to contact ghosts, "brutus" will bring a spirit as soon as "caesar.
almost nine o’clock, lady.
sweet soul, take care, take care of perjury; you are on your death-bed.
you evil thief ,  where have you hidden my daughter ?
let’s go !
this is some gift from a newer girlfriend .
yes ,  and paid me well for doing it .
i’ll obey you until i can make bail .
the law allows it ,  and the court awards it .
is this the kind of world where we hide our accomplishments ?
he made my heart leap for you .
the will!
does anyone here know who i am ?
this is my daughter's dowry, for i can command no more.
why do you sharpen your knife so earnestly ?
this rudeness is the topping to his good traits, which lets men accept his words with better understanding.
lady luck is a fickle whore and never gives the poor a break .
in faith, i am sorry that you’re not well.
why ,  he has an income of three thousand ducats a year .
if either of you knows any secret reason why you two should not be joined in marriage ,  i order you on your souls to say so .
and didn’t they put this wreath of victory on my brows ,  and told me to give it you ?
what ?
now, the next day was our sea-fight, and what followed you know already.
the four strangers are looking for you, madam, to say their goodbyes, and there is a messenger come from a fifth, the prince of morocco, who brings word the prince, his master, will be here tonight.
send there to see .
this storm protects me from thoughts that would hurt me more .
did you dare to look at him, being awake, and have you killed him sleeping?
he doesn’t know he’s been appointed governor yet .
what did he say?
amen .
we would have liked to have heard your good advice ,  which has always been serious and helpful ,  at the council today ,  but we’ll wait until tomorrow .
well ,  i wish you liked me .
i'll be with you right away.
what part is that, my lord?
were you with rosaline?
nor i .
even if i had sworn never to marry ,  i wouldn’t trust myself to keep that promise if hero would marry me .
why speaks my father so roughly ?
and so he fainted .
do you intend to walk outside ?
i will kiss your lips .
tranio ,  i saw her coral - pink lips move and perfume the air with her breath .
forgive me of my foul murder!
send him on his way quickly .
why should titania cross her oberon?
let’s see here .
let them in .
where’s the cook ?
and will he not come again?
but if you return ,  jealous ,  and try to find out what i intend to do ,  by heaven ,  i will tear you limb from limb ,  and scatter your limbs all over this hungry churchyard !
do they seem religious ?
god ,  what a burden on you i must have been !
is it now afternoon ?
it was kent ,  sir ,  the exiled kent ,  who ,  after the king treated him like an enemy of the state ,  put on a disguise and followed his king ,  carrying out tasks unworthy of even a slave .
look at them .
i’m not cinna the conspirator .
not that i know of .
aside.
make a bug show of mourning for her ,  hang sad epitaphs up at your family’s tomb ,  and perform all the appropriate burial ceremonies .
every old man has worries ,  and worried men never get any sleep ,  but young men shouldn’t have a care in the world .
what a three times two ass i was, to take this drunkard for a god, and worship this dull fool!
are you really alive ,  stephano ?
wife!
we don’t doubt it.
tybalt would have killed you ,  but you killed tybalt .
what i have done that might deeply hurt your nature ,  honor ,  and complaints ,  i here proclaim was craziness .
i assure you ,  sir ,  the tender love i feel in my heart is stronger than the sexual passions stirring down below .
will you ,  strato ?
then fix it .
you will soon hear more .
i assure your majesty i’m only doing my duty both to my god and my good king .
out ,  and alas !
why do you lead these men in the streets?
he says that for brutus’s sake he finds himself indebted to us all .
you asked for justice ,  so rest assured you’ll get more justice than you bargained for .
our wedding banquet will become a sad burial feast .
that’s good ,  lion !
are the players ready ?
with this ring i give them all to you .
will it be tonight at supper ?
romeo ,  leave ,  be gone !
as a friend or an enemy ?
wise men who give fools money might get a good reputation—if they keep up regular payments for fourteen years .
wasn’t that cassio leaving my wife ?
it is your music ,  madam ,  from the house .
no ,  believe me ,  it is very cold ,  the wind is northerly .
now you sound like a man.
you are what’s left of the noblest man that ever lived .
i'll wager against his drowning, even if the ship was no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unsatisfied mistress.
farewell ,  my coz .
gertrude, don’t drink.
o, i am slain!
o day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
no doubt it will ,  my liege ,  if each man does his best .
we have lost best half of our attack .
oh ,  life is full of surprises !
let me tell you, cassius, you yourself are much condemned for being greedy, to sell and advertise your offices to unworthy people for gold.
does the king leave here today?
i know they’re in rome together ,  hoping for antony to return .
god gives you one face ,  but you paint another on top of it .
go home !
was it long or round ?
endless greed and lust in a man’s nature is a kind of tyranny .
you know that i gave it to you a half hour ago .
no ,  not him ,  though his face is more handsome than any man’s ,  and his legs are prettier ,  and as for his hands and feet and body ,  they’re not much to speak of ,  and yet they’re beyond compare .
it was a rough night.
noses ,  ears ,  and lips .
i have news—old news such as you never heard before !
how are you ,  madam ?
i am benedick .
i feel sorry for you .
i don’t blame you for praising caesar so; but what agreement do mean you to have with us?
on the outs with the girl i love.
but they aren’t .
what are you doing with a sword ?
not so, my lord.
are you ill ?
i flashed about faster than lightning .
and why do you blame me for loving you ?
and the ghost frowned just like the king did once when he attacked the poles ,  traveling on the ice in sleds .
why ,  no ,  boy .
or are you any thing that man may question ?
mine would, sir, if i were human.
hold my sword, then, and turn away your face, while i run on it.
if it turns out he wasn’t ,  certain people are going to get it .
who would bear these burdens to grunt and sweat under a weary life, except that the dread of something after death, the undiscovered country, from whose borders no traveler returns, puzzles the mind, and makes us bear those problems we have rather than fly to others that we don’t know about?
good man ,  why are you crying ?
we’ve got to give them and take them ,  my lord .
i don’t owe her any duty—it’s you that i submit to .
let me, on my knee, win this argument.
as dumb as dirt !
why ,  fool ?
you’ve heard a lot .
it’s lovely to see you .
each new morning, new widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows strike heaven on the face so that it echoes as if it felt scotland’s pain, and yelled out like a sigh of sorrow.
let us leave everything and give our vineyards to the barbarous nation .
speak ,  man ,  what’s the matter ?
good to see you ,  master antipholus .
in that case i wish you were as good a man as a fish seller .
i won’t have one any bigger .
which speech ,  my lord ?
i dreamed the souls of the people richard murdered came to my tent and promised me victory .
my father—i think i see my father .
what impossible subject will he make easy next?
to bed !
if they have done this thing ,  my noble lord— if ?
shake off sleep ,  which looks like death ,  and look at death itself !
this used to be a great puzzle ,  but now i’ve solved it .
and as for my soul ,  how can the ghost endanger that ,  since it’s as immortal as the ghost is ?
and that’s as much he should do ,  because he’s given to sports ,  to wildness ,  and to having a lot of company .
come ,  sweet nymphs ,  and help us celebrate the wedding of two true lovers .
and will you have me ?
i’m coming .
again ,  good night ,  kind lords and gentlemen .
all these new christians will make the price of hogs go up .
but for the whole world ?
fine ,  but you weren’t harsh enough .
or was it just your whim ,  on your own initiative ?
give me your hand .
i mistook you for that sly venetian woman who married othello . —you whorehouse - keeper .
ariel ,  go order my goblin servants to make these fellows' bones ache ,  give them muscle cramps all over ,  and give them more bruises than leopards have spots .
nor i ,  my lord .
what do you say now ?
here ,  with the permission of brutus and the rest , — because brutus is an honorable man; and they are all ,  all honorable men , — i come to speak in caesar's funeral .
the heavens forbid anything but our loves and comforts should increase even as our days grow long !
what's to be done ?
here are the rulers of france and burgundy ,  my lord .
he hadn’t arrived by the time we finished eating ,  so i went out looking for him .
i knew a girl who was married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit .
give me some wine and let me say a few words .
pull out your sword when i do: and when i raise my hand ,  you do the same ,  so that it falls on gonzalo .
good night ,  honest iago .
no ,  i’ll be patient .
if you enjoy looking at your awful deeds ,  take a look at this noteworthy example of your butcheries .
i fear that your words and your heart are both false .
excuse me .
sure thing ,  we’ll do it tomorrow morning .
when it’s paid ,  bring your friend back .
your flashes of laughter that always make the audience roar ?
be silent and go in .
but what see what see i?
i can too .
i am that merry wanderer of the night.
confess ”  and  “ love ”  have been the very sum of my confession: oh ,  happy torment ,  when my torturer teaches me answers for escape from evil !
what is it ,  octavia ?
but it’s enough .
now ,  hamlet ,  where's polonius ?
sir thomas erpingham .
please ,  don’t take it badly ,  but i cannot and will not give in to you .
i want to measure the extent of your love ,  to see how far it stretches .
i didn’t realize he knew her .
because, let the whole world know, you are the next in line to our throne, and, i give you my love, with no less nobility than the love which the dearest father bears his son.
no, my lord, i saw nothing.
i don’t like fair terms and a villain's mind .
how is my wife ?
this is the inventory of the money ,  silverware ,  dishes ,  and jewels that are still in my possession .
let’s go to our bedroom.
i’d hate to waste my speech on the wrong person ,  because it’s very well written and i spent a lot of time and energy memorizing it .
where should othello go?
he has no friends except those who are too afraid to defy him .
his daughter ,  katherine ,  with some insignificant ,  unprofitable dukedoms as her dowry .
my only sin was loving you too much .
men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run, as it were doomsday.
don’t lose any sleep over it .
i hope you get what you desire !
no .
bring your master home .
goodbye ,  old friend .
i’ll forget that i have any home besides this spot right here .
when the sun sets, the air drizzles dew, but for the funeral of my brother's son it pours rain.
oh ,  he was gentle ,  mild ,  and virtuous .
you wretched ,  rash ,  intruding fool ,  goodbye !
i dreamt a dream tonight .
i knew him when he listened to nothing but the military drum and fife; now he would rather hear the sweet and refined music of the tabor and pipe .
god ,  we are her privates .
we haven’t made a good preparation.
freedom !
tyrant ,  show your face !
no one now ,  to mock your own grinning ?
how do i stand, then, that have a father killed, a mother stained, aggravation of my reason and my blood, and let all sleep while, to my shame, i see the imminent death of twenty thousand men that, for a whim and trick of fame, go to their graves like going to bed, fight for a plot on which the numbers don’t have room to fight for the cause, which is not tomb enough and big enough to hide the slain?
what’s the matter ?
you look tired.
and yet ,  against all odds ,  i win her over !
i don’t have any news to report ,  my lord .
snout ,  the tinker !
then you really are insane ,  if you’re no saner than a fool .
the time is so out of whack.
go on; carry this .
he looks gentler than he did.
as for this ghost we just saw ,  he’s a real one ,  i can tell you that much .
i’m very sensitive ,  and even the smallest bit of rudeness hurts my feelings .
i’ve lurked in the shadows here to watch the downfall of my enemies .
look ,  he’s approaching caesar .
he’s got an answer for everything .
here’s the story we’ll tell her: that i was with you at your shop ,  watching you make her necklace ,  and that you’re going to deliver it tomorrow .
i am only hurt .
fight me ,  coward !
thanks ,  you brave men who defend this island and respect othello .
come on ,  take control of your feelings .
i know not ,  sir .
what did he do to you ?
our feast shall be very honored by your marriage.
as i was working on one musty room ,  the prince and claudio entered .
come with me ,  i’ll show you ,  and along the way ,  you can tell me where you live .
away with the good stools, remove the china closet, look to the plate.
then you’ll be able to cheer  if he were dead ,  what would happen to me ?
whatever you are ,  for your good warning ,  thanks; you have helped my fear with your music .
even by the rule of that knowledge by which i blamed cato for his suicide— i don’t know why, but i think it’s cowardly and vile to take your own life because of the fear of what might happen— arming myself with the patience to wait for the help of some high powers that govern us here below.
nor i, my lord.
when he stands where i am and sees you there .
welcome ,  good robin .
but montague is the same restrictions as i am, the same penalty; and it should not be hard, i think, for men so old as we to keep the peace.
well ,  i am standing water .
i will go tomorrow, (and i will go early in the morning) to the weird sisters.
where's peasblossom ?
isn’t someone waiting for me?
no, i assure you; the wall is down that parted their fathers.
faith, i intend to.
so she was moved by it ?
i beg you ,  tell me ,  then ,  that he is well .
you thought because he didn’t speak english like a native he couldn’t handle an english club .
my most dear lord!
we know how much they suffer if we are unkind to them .
go quickly to church; i must go another way, to fetch a ladder, by the which your love must climb to a bird's nest soon, when it is dark.
those uncles that you wish were here were dangerous .
shall i do such a deed?
how is she ?
you listen: your romeo will be here at night.
oh ,  you wicked scoundrel !
i tell you ,  though ,  it’s incredible how much she loves me .
farewell ,  my lord .
where shall we go?
strike !
no, who are you?
let it all go .
let’s play .
you see me standing here ,  lord bassanio .
he may win; and what is music then?
you’re not going ,  sir .
you have not been to bed then?
show!
if i had a plantation of this island, my lord,— listen, plant it with plants that sting.
poor tom’s chilly .
you don’t need to be afraid ,  lady ,  of having any of these lords; they have told me their intentions ,  which is indeed to go back to their homes ,  and to trouble you with no more suits ,  unless you may be won by some other way than your father's command ,  that getting you depends on the chests .
or be alive again ,  and challenge me to fight you in the desert with your sword .
it’s brabantio .
your wife, my lord; your true and loyal wife.
since his majesty went into the field, i have seen her rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her closet, take out paper, fold it, write upon it, read it, afterwards seal it, and again return to bed.
leap and dance for him .
i didn’t accuse you of lying .
our fathers' minds are dead, and we are governed by our mothers' spirits; our burden and suffering makes us look womanish.
you are a fool; be quiet .
you are a villain .
what do you think, cassio?
wait ,  don’t rush !
since if the sun breeds maggots on a dead dog ,  kissing the corpse—by the way ,  do you have a daughter ?
silver!
it’s not a false gallop ,  anyway .
if you’re going to lend us this money ,  don’t lend it to us as if we were your friends .
why do you address me by his name ?
in the meantime ,  do nothing ,  and let the investigation be do patiently .
i humbly thank you, sir.
is romeo slaughtered ,  and is tybalt dead ?
i am not guilty of killing lysander; and he isn’t dead, as far as i can tell.
no, good man, be patient.
this cannot anger him.
at my house .
come now ,  keep your oath; now be a freeman ,  and ,  search this chest with this good sword ,  that ran through caesar's bowels .
brutus speaks.
i learned it in england ,  where ,  indeed ,  they are very powerful drinkers .
and all my children ?
we will sit here and let the sounds of music creep into our ears; soft stillness and the night compliment the touches of sweet harmony .
madam ,  you’ve given me life and given me a living too .
my lord ,  i wish thursday were tomorrow .
answer every man directly .
in the secret parts of fortune ?
who’s stopping you ?
fetch desdemona here .
my words are dull .
you look angry.
what ,  in our own house ?
the privilege of never seeing me again .
she fainted at the sight of them bleeding .
who were you chasing with your sword ?
are the players ready?
o day !
did you find my daughter ?
curse the day this happened ,  but it did .
yes, madam, from the reach of my hands.
on a night like this a campfire in an empty field would be like the heart of a dirty old man—a tiny spark in a cold body .
until her beautiful life’s end .
this madman will murder me .
what wicked magician has conjured up this devil to interrupt this sacred burial rite ?
it’s a big deal to you .
where are the wicked beginners of this fight ?
eros !
yes, noise?
if you’ve been ordered back to venice because of my father ,  don’t blame me .
it’s all stopped .
how is it that you’ve come back so soon ?
ha, ha, ha!
how’s the night going ,  boy ?
what did i keep for myself ?
he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
if the jew her father ever comes to heaven, it will be for his gentle daughter's sake; and never should misfortune dare to cross her foot, unless she does it under this excuse, that she is daughter to a faithless jew.
and when i don’t love you ,  chaos comes back .
have you come by night, and stolen my love's heart from him?
and you ,  go call my fool .
o, for a chair, to carry him easily from here!
o sorrowful time!
alas, he faints!
so what ?
well ,  let him go .
are you some god, some angel, or some devil, that makes my blood cold and my hair to stand on end?
i won’t wrong any of my friends ,  because i don’t have any to mourn for me ,  and i won’t have wronged the world ,  because i don’t have anything in the world .
only go at once .
sir ,  don’t grieve; you are welcome nevertheless .
i would out-night you, if no one was coming, but, listen, i hear the footsteps of a man.
i’ve decided on a plan that doesn’t require your assistance .
my mistress showed me you in the moon and your dog and your bush .
lorenzo ,  that’s for sure ,  and i’m also sure you’re my love—who else do i love so much ?
almost the middle of the night.
i am not  “ i ,  ”  if there be such an  “ i ,  ”  or those eyes shut that make you answer  “ i .  ”  if he is slain ,  say  “ i; ”  or if not ,  say  “ no .  ”  brief sounds determine my wealth or sorrows .
he has an uncle here in messina who will be glad to hear this news .
have you not spoken to her since then ?
yes ,  and mild ,  as he has said most knowledgeably .
where is my romeo ?
because, before demetrius looked on hermia's eyes, he swore many oaths that he was only mine; and, when this torrent of oaths was rejected by hermia, demetrius dissolved, and his oaths melted too.
i'd have you live; because ,  in my thinking ,  it is happiness to die .
sister ,  be happy in my unhappiness . —sir ,  i will humbly obey you .
and now you toss flowers in the path of caesar ,  who comes in triumph over pompey’s defeated sons ?
o ,  teach me how i should forget to think .
what do you think i should do ?
i’m afraid that a worse man will take his place.
lovers ,  moan and weep .
let whatever’s going to happen ,  happen .
it was most terrible to hear.
i can tell you, but “young” romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you asked for him.
bad deeds will be revealed ,  no matter how people try to hide them .
these were sweet omens !
this king of naples ,  being an old enemy of mine ,  listens my brother's request ,  which was ,  that he ,  instead of the promises of allegiance and i don’t know how much protection money ,  should presently drive me and my family out of the dukedom ,  and give the fair city of milan ,  with all the honors to my brother: which ,  with a treacherous army recruited ,  on a midnight assigned to the purpose ,  antonio opened the gates of milan; and ,  in the dead of darkness ,  the ones given the job hurried me and your crying self from there .
he’s going to look like a total idiot .
i have a ship full of treasure .
sir ,  do you recognize this glove ?
here is a sick man that would speak with you.
tell me, laertes, why are you so angry like this?
now i’m alone .
sing me now to sleep ,  then go to your tasks ,  and let me rest .
go get some water, and wash this filthy witness from your hands.
isn’t it enough ,  isn’t it enough ,  young man ,  that i never did ,  no ,  nor never can deserve a sweet look from demetrius' eye ,  but you must joke about what i’m lacking ?
your case, dear friend, shall be my authority for what i do: as you go to milan, i'll come by naples.
i can’t live by pretending anymore .
you’ve got something for me ?
which of these bad things happened to him ?
we’re friends !
gamble for lead!
i don’t doubt it ,  and all these sorrows shall become sweet memories that we can talk about in our future .
retreat further ,  my lord ,  retreat further .
my reputation ,  iago ,  my reputation !
a man who’s robbed ,  but doesn’t miss what’s stolen ,  isn’t robbed at all .
tom’s chilly .
understand ?
oh ,  it breaks my heart to think how painful it must be for you to recall all this ,  things that i can’t remember .
that would be a little extreme !
welcome, mistress.
hello ,  you idiot .
call claudius and some others of my men; i'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent .
away !
listen to me .
blow me about in winds!
for god’s sake ,  find a house to duck into .
yeah ,  so ?
oh, you were an angel that saved me!
sir ,  there was a kind of fighting in my heart that wouldn’t let me sleep .
and you all know ,  security is the major enemy of humans .
well too.
o, now you weep and i can see that you feel the blow of pity.
good portia ,  go to bed .
where are you going ?
my brave relative !
by heaven ,  you do me wrong .
the king is coming .
okay ,  let’s go !
i think antonio only loves the world for him.
you pretty lovers are lucky you met me here .
what does that mean ,  sir ?
let’s send this news to rome .
i think there is a lot of reason in what he’s saying.
well ,  that turned out well in the end .
there isn’t any kindness in the snake .
o heaven, that you would expose such companions, and put a whip in every honest hand to whip the rascals naked throughout the world, even from the east to the west!
i meant to say the lord protector .
valiant othello, we must straight send you against the general enemy ottoman.
tell me about it quickly ,  so that i ,  with wings as swift as meditation or the thoughts of love ,  may rush to my revenge .
lady beatrice is angry with you .
the reasons for a second marriage are low respects of saving money ,  but not for love .
you may call me that, sir, when i may be a wife.
sir ,  i know you ,  and i trust you enough to share something very important with you .
this is the fool who lent out money without charging interest .
but i should kill you with much cherishing.
okay ,  who does it trot for ?
and you will be ,  or some people here will suffer for it .
i sent him there ,  sir ,  but his crimes deserved a worse punishment .
you too ,  fabian .
first you taught me how to beg ,  and now i think you’re teaching me how a beggar should be answered .
to be king in this way is nothing ,  only to be safely king in this way matters .
how dangerous to have this madman on the loose !
what did you say?
the news accuses the speaker; each minute turns up a new one.
talk about your serious speech over a gossip's bowl ,  because we don’t need it here !  .
do we have devils on the island ?
this is like if i asked you to wear your gloves when it’s cold outside ,  or eat nutritious food ,  or do something that’s good for you .
my lord ,  welcome this man .
and the men resemble their english hounds in their loud ,  showy ferocity ,  too ,  leaving their brains behind with their wives .
welcome ,  my good alexas .
who are you ?
well, if he’s not rotten before he dies, as we have many small pox corpses nowadays that will scarce last beyond the wake, he will last you some eight years or nine years.
she wants to have a word with you in her bedroom before you go to bed .
yes ,  i thank god ,  my father ,  and yourself .
well ,  what’s your plan ?
i couldn’t see you ,  lysander ,  but i heard your voice ,  and that’s how i found you .
gratiano, keep the house, and seize on the fortunes of the moor, because they fall on you.
why ,  why is this ?
has romeo killed himself?
the ocean ,  exceeding of his borders ,  doesn’t eat the flatlands with more impatient speed than young laertes ,  heading a riot ,  takes over your offices .
where are you going ?
who is that gentleman over there ?
who can explain this to me ?
good-night, good-night.
it’s almost five o'clock .
don’t bother trying to intimidate me by putting your hand on your sword .
and what would you give me for the handkerchief ?
if you sit down ,  i’ll carry your logs a while .
amen !
a seventh!
give me a goblet . —hamlet ,  this pearl’s yours .
i did ,  kind lady .
let’s go, guys!
aside.
orsino ,  this is the same antonio who took the
never make known what you have seen tonight .
the nobleman’s are as huge as the underfed villager’s .
maybe some poison is still on them, to make me die by restoring me.
i’ve been dishonored: i arranged for a friend of mine to marry a common whore .
yes ,  i think that’s true .
listen to my little story ,  and when it’s done ,  oh ,  my heart will break !
we'll have a speech right now.
he’s ready; get closer and back him up .
how noble in reason !
please keep in mind we’re only here out of spite .
is it his habit?
the queen is coming .
then must the jew be merciful .
go away and stay apart from me .
let them be well used, for they are the short stories and brief history of the time.
if you stop up the keyhole ,  it will escape from the chimney along with the smoke .
this was the most unkindest cut of all, because, when the noble caesar saw brutus stab him, ingratitude, stronger than traitors' arms, quite defeated him.
that way we can conceal how many of us there are ,  and macbeth’s spies will give him inaccurate reports .
o ,  most wicked speed ,  to travel with such quickness to incestuous sheets !
it’s a monster !
we found him in the churchyard .
why ,  you scoundrel !
what do you remember ?
calm down ,  calm down .
for my brother edward’s sake .
queen ,  you knew very well that my heart was tied to your ship and that you would pull me along with you .
is it possible?
discipline must be kept .
say it again—just one word ,  and my hand ,  which killed your lover out of love ,  will kill your far truer lover .
give him my respects ,  and tell him i’ll definitely be there for dinner ,  since i know he has gone to great lengths for this meal .
and in the morning i’ll take you to your ship and we’ll sail to naples ,  where i hope to see this loving couple married .
give me that boy and i’ll come with you .
yes, lady, that’s what i said.
she’s too beautiful and too wise to deserve heaven’s blessing by making me despair .
my life were better ended by their hate than death postponed, wanting your love.
follow your spirit ,  and as you charge cry ,   “ god for harry ,  england ,  and saint george !  ”
this tyrant ,  whose mere name is so awful it hurts us to say it ,  was once considered an honest man .
to tell you the truth ,  they fought the new enemy with twice as much force as before; they were like cannons loaded with double ammunition .
i thank you.
send for the man and ask him .
o, answer me!
your state is the more gracious, for it is a vice to know him.
you have seen nothing, then?
hurry: you know where i’ll wait for you.
what sights, my lord?
i’ll listen to brutus .
yes ,  you’re absolutely right about how worthy brutus is and how much we need him .
beware of march 15th .
find the people whose names are on this list ?
i'll call them back again to comfort me; nurse!
though i expect she’ll wear me out more quickly than i’ll wear out what i’m wearing—which will be good for her and even better for me !
where are these hearts ?
the man who was the baron still lives, only lives that life which he deserves to lose under the death penalty.
add details of your own to back up what i’m saying .
i have time for you now ,  my sad daughter .
if luck deserts us today ,  it’s because we defy it .
did you think i was talking about sex ?
her father loves you ,  demetrius .
your wife and brother led troops against me ,  claiming to be fighting in your name .
does it go against the main part of poland, sir, or for some frontier?
help!
but here comes antony . —welcome ,  mark antony .
didn’t i meet up with your allies ?
is it they ?
if she orders me to go ,  i’ll thank her warmly as if she’d just offered to put me up for a week .
no man handles sorrow better.
look on the tragic load on this bed; this is your work.
oh weary night ,  oh long and tedious night ,  cut your hours short !
my lord ,  what do you want ?
no ,  i'll conjure him up too .
the battle on the sea is almost lost .
has romeo killed himself ?
is it the king?
what ,  you don’t want me to be chaste ?
if a ship’s leaving ,  come to the marketplace .
are you trying to make fun of me ?
she might lie by an emperor's side and order him to work .
antonio ,  as i heard in genoa— what ,  what ,  what ?
is the visor of my helmet working better now ?
come ,  go aside with me; i will leave so i can equip me with some swift means of death for the beautiful devil .
he constantly offends me .
how long have you believed in astrology ?
how dare you try to be my friend when you refuse to fight my enemy .
what ,  are they children ?
yes ,  and wisely .
your drops of tribute belong to sorrow, which you, mistaken, have offered up to joy.
here’s another ,  stronger than the first .
thank you so much .
no ,  by my honor ,  madam ,  by my soul ,  no woman took it ,  but a civil doctor ,  which refused three thousand dollars of me ,  and begged for the ring ,  which i denied him ,  and let him go away displeased ,  even he that had delayed the very life of my dear friend .
if you respect my will ,  then show a fair presence and put off these frowns ,  they are not the proper expressions for a feast .
usually fathers produce children ,  not the other way around .
i am considered as fair as she is throughout athens .
a jumbled confession can only receive a jumbled absolution .
the heart is sorely perplexed .
judge me in your wisdom ,  and wake up your senses ,  so you can be a better judge .
down!
let’s go, and, with a clear eye, compare her face with some others that i shall show you, and i will make you think your swan is a crow.
and she’s loyal ,  as she has proven .
her heart is carrying a heavy weight .
the one i gave you.
bring the villain out.
i am the slave and worker in your delight; but you shall bear the burden soon at night.
can you do me greater harm than hate?
please ,  sir ,  i beg you .
o devil!
he may not, as lower persons do, select for himself, for on his choice depends the safety and health of this whole state, and therefore must his choice be subject to the voice and consent of that state that he is the head of.
flies can kiss her ,  but i must flee the city .
it’s a pity that fools aren’t allowed to speak wisely about the foolish things that wise men do .
you juggler !
tell us when you wish to get married ,  and may god give you joy .
come now, keep your oath; now be a freeman, and, search this chest with this good sword, that ran through caesar's bowels.
if i died right now i’d be completely happy ,  since i’ll probably never be as happy as this again in my life .
well ,  let his father be what he will be ,  we’re talking about young master launcelot .
now i feel better, you have vanished.
damn her, lewd cat!
i’m ordering you ,  go home .
can you ask about him and be satisfied by the reports ?
he’s done wrong ,  and his master the king will punish him for it .
that is the voice, or i am much mistaken, of portia.
how are you ,  desdemona ?
o ,  speak again ,  bright angel !
don’t speak any further .
look ,  where he is coming !
we might as well call him a man ,  since god created him .
i beg your pardon ,  sir— what did that guy say ?
we cannot get from him where the dead body is hidden, my lord.
no money ,  i swear .
antonio ,  i married a woman as dear to me as life itself .
what ,  man !
we’ll go to the river .
what said he when he came to?
mr. cobweb; good monsieur, get all your weapons in your hand and kill me a red-hipped humble-bee on the top of a thistle; and, good monsieur, bring me his honey-bag.
on ,  on ,  on ,  on ,  on !
goblin, lead them up and down.
are you this impatient ?
bring it after me .
it’s going feel like twenty years until then.
will you be my husband ,  then ?
the senate has concluded to give a crown to mighty caesar this day .
listen to that petruchio: she says she’ll see you hanged first .
finally ,  the ceremony done ,  he called for wine .
no ,  when light - winged toys of feathered cupid blind my knowing and usual instruments of sight with unruly dullness ,  that if my games corrupt and stain my work ,  let housewives make a skillet of my helmet ,  and all indignities and base adversities make a boil of my reputation !
be gone !
i recognize your face perfectly ,  even without a sailor’s cap on your head . —take him away .
now, what’s the news in the marketplace?
i am debating about my present monies ,  and ,  by the nearest guess ,  i remember that i cannot instantly raise up the whole sum of three thousand dollars .
that is ,  if we ever want to return to being rivals for bianca’s love .
there are more things in heaven and earth ,  horatio ,  than are dreamt of in your philosophy .
god have mercy on his soul !
are you starting to challenge me ?
by god ,  my lord ,  well spoken ,  with good accent and good judgment .
yes, and wisely too; because it would have angered any heart alive, to hear the men deny it.
the venetians are waiting for their food .
surely it’s some matter of state ,  either from venice or some minor problem shown to him here in cyprus ,  that has muddied his clear spirit ,  and in such cases men's natures fight with inferior things ,  although their object is great ones .
the king’s in bed .
what did you say ?
my lord ,  i’d want to have the gift you promised me on your honor: the earldom of hereford and all the possessions that go with it .
i wish my eyes were
something about hamlet .
do you know the way to dover ?
approach ,  rich ceres ,  to entertain her .
merciful heaven !
i’ll go get them ,  sir .
portia is dead .
i tell you ,  you would find the rituals of war and ,  i promise you ,  its ceremonies and its solicitudes and its forms and its gravity and its discipline all to be quite counter to all this noise .
shall she come in ?
the jew will have justice .
come ,  father ,  i’ll leave you at a friend’s house .
i wish i knew what was in your heart .
o hateful day !
and i’ll go there straight to visit him.
i am glad to see you angry .
ely joining richmond troubles me more than buckingham and his quickly assembled army .
the evil deed has turned itself on me .
it is only as high as it is and moves with its own legs .
i’m christopher sly .
these sentences ,  to sweetness or to bitterness ,  being strong on both sides ,  are equal .
ugh !
in his ignorant jealousy ,  he’ll totally misunderstand cassio’s smiles ,  gestures ,  and jokes . —how are you ,  lieutenant ?
listen !
don’t trust rotten planks .
be quiet and listen to me .
come ,  poor remains of friends ,  rest on this rock .
it’s true ,  this so - called  “ god ” —he shook .
i could translate between you and your love, if i could see the toys flirting.
when should the three of us meet again?
on thursday, sir?
what man is that?
lady !
what can i do for my lord ?
that was a likely story ,  that you found it in your room and didn’t know who it belonged to .
i beg you ,  although you mock me ,  gentlemen ,  don’t let her hurt me .
you know the law .
for pity’s sake, for pity’s sake!
well ,  hello there ,  horatio !
with her ,  on top of her—however you want to say it .
will you tear impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
they intend to challenge us here at philippi ,  responding to our challenge before we’ve even challenged him .
listen !
the king has broken his heart .
then how will we see their own natural tears ?
you’re this poor and wretched and still afraid to die ?
there is no world without verona walls ,  only purgatory ,  torture ,  hell itself .
i’m just stating the facts as i see them .
i’m sorry ,  but i memorized what i’m supposed to say here today ,  and that question isn’t part of the speech i learned .
stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
our love ,  which right now is like a flower bud in the summer air ,  may turn out to be a beautiful flower by the next time we meet .
he is so full of courage ,  and his commendations are food for me ,  a banquet to me .
welcome ,  my lord .
the night has been chaotic .
i didn’t hear anything ,  madam .
if it’s that important ,  then let the women die .
i’m leaving your court now .
why, how can you, hamlet!
thoughts work so quickly that even now you can imagine him on blackheath ,  where his lords suggest that he should carry his battle - scarred sword and helmet on a procession through the city .
if this business would really be finished when i did the deed ,  then it would be best to get it over with quickly .
is she to be buried in christian burial when she wilfully seeks her own salvation?
he took me by the wrist ,  and held me hard ,  then he went to the length of his whole arm ,  and with his other hand like this over his brow ,  he started such study of my face as though he wanted to draw it .
let’s proceed on our march to birnam .
we’ll have to speak more .
if you continue treating hermia so badly ,  you’ll pay for it .
or am i asleep now and imagining all this ?
it’s obvious to everyone that you’ve tricked her ,  drugged her ,  or kidnapped her .
but who’s that coming this way ?
oh ,  goodbye !
please, tell me this; if he should break his promise, what should i gain by taking his forfeit?
well ,  i'll point you in the right direction .
sit down and eat ,  and welcome to our table .
despised, distressed, hated, martyred, killed!
pay you ?
would you try to lift mount olympus ?
go tell him about this .
an egyptian gave that handkerchief to my mother; she cast charms and could almost read the thoughts of people.
i cannot stay any longer .
where nothing, but who knows nothing, is once seen to smile, where sighs, and groans, and shrieks, that tear at the air, are made, not marked, where violent sorrow seems a modern ecstasy.
no, make it two lines more.
tell me what my part is, and then proceed.
how many times will caesar bleed again in show ,  though he now lies at the base of pompey’s statue ,  as worthless as dust !
don’t follow; i won’t put up with your speaking; i’ll have my promise to pay .
is it a habit of his ?
the single and peculiar life is bound ,  with all the strength and amour of the mind ,  to keep itself from madness ,  but much more so for that spirit on whose government the lives of many depend and rest .
will you kill yourself?
our fears of banquo stick deep, and there’s a lot to be afraid of in the royalty of his nature.
where are you ,  keeper ?
tell the army to flee .
who put my servant in the stocks ?
from this time forward ,  i’ll never speak word .
say goodbye to your sisters .
what do you want ,  fellow ?
hamlet ,  you are killed ,  no medicine in the world can save you .
go to francis seacole ,  the constable of the watch .
lucilius and titinius ,  ask the commanders to prepare to pitch tents for their troops tonight .
here she comes ,  the brilliant fool - catcher .
what wicked and lying mirror of mine made me compare my eyes with hermia's ?
a hit ,  a hit that was felt .
let’s stay and hear the will !
you, or any man living, may be drunk at a time, man.
be tough ,  ”  says the devil ,   “ and run !  ”  but then my conscience ,  hanging around my heart ,  says very wisely to me ,   “ my good friend launcelot ,  you’re a good boy ,  the son of an honest man ,  ”  really ,  that should be the son of an honest woman ,  since my father cheated on my mother .
i hate your logic as much as i hate an empty drinking cup .
go ,  sir andrew .
you don’t have reasonto say so.
what man dot you dig it for ?
it is here ,  hamlet .
he sent me word that ,  whether i liked it or not ,  he liked it fine .
what, ho!
no ,  he’s in florence .
why do you cross me in this command ?
i beg you, when you see that act begin, even with the very criticism of your soul watch my uncle.
if mortuaries and our graves must send those that we bury back ,  our tombs shall be the stomachs of birds .
oh, the heavens!
you’re so much older than you look !
oh ,  heavens !
yes, too gentle.
there he will come to know his destiny .
mr .  fabian ,  stay with this gentleman until i come back .
your answer to that .
what’s going on now about this haunted grove ?
then right next to him i saw the murderers ,  dripping with blood ,  their daggers rudely covered in gore .
i won’t sleep until i’ve delivered your letter ,  my lord .
here the count lies slain ,  and juliet bleeding ,  warm ,  and newly dead ,  who has been buried in this tomb for two days .
has romeo killed himself ?
how did her eyes come to be so bright?
they were traitors .
excellent ,  good .
let me ask you a particular question .
other countries criticize us for our loud partying .
this shall label our purpose as necessary and not jealous ,  which appearing to be respectful to common eyes ,  we shall be called purgers ,  not murderers .
wind and rain can’t wash it off .
we don’t need a ghost, my lord, to come from the grave to tell us this.
not until we part as friends .
you’re both very precious to me .
that’s what i intend to do too .
what ?
noble people don’t answer to peasants !
i swear ,  i could do so much— please ,  no more .
what do i see on you ?
yes ,  my lord .
you ,  niece .
o cassius, i’m sick because of many sorrows.
i see .
is scotland the same as when i left it ?
the best thing to do is crawl under his cloak .
by mary, my child, early next thursday morning, the gallant, young, and noble gentleman, the count paris, at st. peter's church, shall happily make you there a joyful bride.
what’s going on in here ?
why are you asking me that ?
go away; i'll send for you soon .
beautiful ladies ,  you drop holy bread in the way of starved people .
give me your hand; take me to my host .
get out, you green, diseased dead meat!
i don’t understand why she’s not locked up .
we’ll meet them near birnam wood they are coming that way .
doesn’t she count her blessings that unworthy as she is, we have secured so worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
my mistress and her sister are waiting for you .
how long is that since ?
great tyranny ,  lay your foundation solid ,  because goodness dare not challenge you !
it is the cause.
go, get away from here, because i will not leave.
it’s me, my lord, and your poor servant forever.
you’ve done a good job ,  that other men can attribute their murders to you !
they say not to go out today.
they would not take her life for one thing she did .
why, man?
madam ,  what should i do ?
i’ll torment them all till they roar with pain .
i don’t want you to deny this imposition ,  which my love and some necessity now lays on you .
hello to you .
if ,  rather than to marry count paris you have the strength of will to kill yourself ,  then is it likely you will try something like death to chase this shame away ,  something that will cover you with death himself ,  to escape from it ?
if only i could spit poison .
come with us ,  lepidus .
that matter is answered directly.
where’s my fool ? —go call my fool and have him come here .
this is mr. antonio.
a king ,  perhaps— my lord— how is it that the prophet didn’t tell me at the time that i would kill him ?
be quiet ,  be quiet .
why is my lord enraged against his love ?
tell me ,  if your dark powers can see this far: will banquo’s sons ever reign in this kingdom ?
no ,  he just smiles .
very nice to see you ,  sir .
as you all know ,  overconfidence is man’s greatest enemy .
lovers ,  it’s time to go to bed .
my lord, i’ll hit him now.
it appears, by his small light of discretion, that he is growing dark, but still, politely, in all reason, we must pass the time.
you’re as wise as you are beautiful .
i must go attend caesar .
i tell you, churlish priest, my sister shall be a ministering angel when you lie howling.
have a nice day!
answer when i call your name . —nick bottom ,  the weaver ?
go into the bedroom and see for yourself .
there's many a beast, then, in a crowded city, and many a civil monster.
yes, they are.
get him ,  he’s a thief !
i have made your daughter mine by marriage while false impressions blinded your eyes .
a certain group of educated worms are now biting him.
let's do it ,  i beg you ,  and i know exactly where we shall easily find him .
it was incredible !
you have .
no ?
farewell to both of you ,  dear teachers .
who’s there ,  aside from this foul weather ?
good lord !
my fairy lord, this must be done very quickly, because night is quickly coming to an end; and over there is the first hint of morning sunlight, which, when it is seen by ghosts wandering here and there, they all troop home to the graveyards.
go to sleep ,  and listen to us .
just remember that he is caesar .
where’s the jury ,  the judge ,  the lawful proceedings ,  the verdict ?
wasn’t he born from a woman ?
antonio shall be obligated; right ?
and of all christian souls ,  i pray god .
this is a majestic and harmonious vision .
tell him ,  if it pleases him come to this place ,  he shall get an explanation and ,  by my honor ,  leave here safely .
yuck !
in such a night dido stood with a willow in her hand on the wild banks of the sea ,  and sent her love to return to carthage .
madam ,  i’m a bit like you in that i can’t tolerate a tone of disapproval .
i hope your love for me remains this strong for your entire life !
othello !
well ,  what’s going on ,  mister ?
i’d be angry with you if the occasion allowed .
as his body grows uglier with age ,  his mind rots away as well .
i know the real reason .
i’ll tell you everything exactly as it happened .
do as i asked you .
where i have learned how to repent the sin of my stubbornness and disobedience to you and your requests; and i am commanded by holy lawrence to fall flat on the floor here ,  to beg your forgiveness .
the servants ,  the duke ,  and your daughter all seem to be treating you less kindly .
all the perfumes of arabia couldn’t make my little hand smell better .
anyone who wants to separate us will have to smoke us out of the cave of our togetherness like foxes .
would you rather hear a love song or a song about the good life ?
look how pale he glares!
which is the merchant here ,  and which the jew ?
why ,  sir ,  i told you an hour ago that the good ship  this fellow’s gone mad ,  and so have i .  we’re in some kind of dream world .
do you like her ,  claudio ?
i wish he would change!
lord ,  lord ,  when she was a little baby—oh ,  there is one nobleman in the city ,  a guy named paris ,  who would be happy to claim her as his own .
my countryman ,  but i still don’t know him .
signior baptista ,  i’m glad to see you . —sir ,  this is the gentleman i told you of .
helena ,  it’s not true .
to this day ,  the kings of france follow this unspoken rule ,  even though they point to this salic law to bar your highness from inheriting it through the female line .
o lady, speak again!
come to these yellow sands ,  and then take my hands: bow courteously when you have and kiss me , — the wild waves are silent , — dance gracefully here and there; and ,  sweet spirits ,  listen to the chorus .
captain fluellen !
my husband .
no ,  i don’t ,  sir .
don’t worry about the cost .
you are so naked and full of misery and you’re afraid to die?
give your thoughts to yourself, and don’t act without thinking.
what's that, my lord?
if he is not born to be hanged ,  then our present state is pitiful .
be quiet !
and now who but you knows whether i’m yours ?
i swear ,  i don’t like the look of you .
o you weed, who are so lovely beautiful, and smell so sweet, that the sense aches at you, i wish you had never been born!
fast !
you’re coming here yourself to see the dreaded act you had tried to stop .
the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers .
oh god !
yes ,  very well ,  my lord .
he cried out ,   “ wait for me ,  dear cousin .
if he has my father’s love ,  then that’s enough honor for me .
i can truly deliver all this.
something from venice ,  surely .
did you say with cassio ?
it’s good that you don’t know that you’re his heirs; because if you did ,  o ,  what would happen !
you’re  forgive me ,  signior gremio ,  but i’m anxious to get things moving .
he would just see me for what i am ,  a person amazed to hear you talking about naples .
what ,  that’s all ?
no ,  for me now .
are you talking about young master launcelot ?
i’ll also wear this in my cap .
sextus pompeius is sailing toward the port of rome .
listen !
i anger her sometimes ,  and tell her that paris is the more proper man; but i'll guarantee you ,  when i say so ,  she looks as pale as any linen in the whole ,  wide world .
come like shadows and depart in the same way !
when will there be another like him ?
you, wretched boy, that hung out with him here, will be with him there.
who here is so low that he wants to be a slave ?
happily, in faith; i'll put my seal to such a promise to pay, and say there is much kindness in the jew.
they’re retreating ,  sir ,  and our superiority indicates a clear victory .
bless your heart .
will you listen to me ,  roderigo ?
where should othello go ?
what’s up ,  man ?
you’ve already stained our sheets with your lust; now i’ll stain them with your whore’s blood .
then it’s getting close to the time when the spirit has his habit of walking.
brutus killed me .
what man is that ?
i bleed, sir, but i am not killed.
listen !
who are you ,  coming so fast in this quiet night ?
help ,  angels !
come, let me clutch you.
do that ,  and i’ll set you free in two days .
therefore, my lord,— damn it, what a waste he makes of his words!
you ,  wretched boy ,  that hung out with him here ,  will be with him there .
if it pleases you ,  your highness ,  will you lead us all inside ?
then know that from my soul i love your daughter .
have them come in front of the master constable .
oh ,  dear gods !
you have seen nothing ,  then ?
i beg you ,  take your fingers from my throat ,  for ,  although i am not impatient and rash ,  i still have something dangerous in me ,  which you should fear .
good lord !
what does the golden box say ?
no ,  you have to forget all that now .
so goodbye until we meet again .
i shall do so; only i must also feel it as a man.
yes ,  ma'am ,  we have .
i tell you ,  i’ll either make him eat some part of this leek or give him a four - day head - bashing . —go on ,  bite .
you need to learn what ants know well about winter—there’s no point in slaving away if there’s no hope for profit .
i hear a voice more piercing than the music of these trumpets calling  “ caesar !  ”  speak .
you wanted to be king of the island ,  sir ?
the great fight of the sea and skies separated our fellowship .
no, i don’t hear your honest friend; i hear you.
we’ll leave ,  brutus .
your highness just told me that i should ride there before you .
undress the statues if they’re decorated in honor of caesar .
but isn’t there a sequel that follows this mother's surprise ?
i don’t have the cash right now .
by running fast .
was the duke of milan thrown out of milan, that his children should become kings of naples?
can you work in the earth so fast?
if you stick with me ,  when the time comes ,  there will be something in it for you .
i’ll find romeo to comfort you .
let hercules himself do what he may ,  the cat will mew and every dog will have his day .
now go ahead and tell me the rest of your story . —please go stand farther away .
no ,  my lord .
but if you don’t mean well ,  i beg you ,  madam !
only let the order of the universe be disrupted ,  both the real and spiritual worlds suffer ,  before we will eat our meal in fear ,  and sleep in the affliction of these terrible dreams that wake us up nightly .
so all hail ,  macbeth and banquo !
where, my lord?
macduff is missing and your noble son.
this is what calpurnia’s dream means.
it’s almost ten o'clock .
didn’t you see that?
am i part of you but ,  as it were ,  in sort or limitation , — to keep you company at meals ,  sleep in your bed ,  and talk to you sometimes ?
someone deliver the order that buckingham be brought to salisbury .
oh ,  here she comes .
here he comes .
pronounce this sentence then women may fall when there's no strength in men .
it came from a neutral party ,  not from someone opposed to you .
clink your cups together in a toast !
better ,  since your lordship was nice enough to ask .
a noose pardon him!
he does confess that he feels himself troubled ,  but he will by no means speak about the cause .
how is it ,  michael ,  that you have forgotten yourself ?
you’re on .
i have to tell you everything .
please make him change his mind .
my sweet darling cries when she sees me work and tells me that such a wonderful man never performed such lowly tasks before .
he did ,  and i gave it to him .
i tried to stop speaking plainly ,  since you dislike plain speech so much .
oh ,  let us be merciful anyway .
what!
well, you have really comforted me a lot.
he’ll recover his sanity there .
her chaste, white gown is only sick and green, and only fools wear it.
catch me if you can !
are your men searching for him ?
apparently so . —cover their faces .
yes.
good morning, worthy caesar.
i thank you ,  lady .
what have you done ?
the world doesn’t make laws to make you rich .
he's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies is stabbing him .
your letters have transported me beyond this ignorant present ,  and i now feel the future in the instant .
it is lodovico come from the duke.
this fellow's exceedingly honesty ,  and knows all qualities ,  with an educated spirit ,  of human dealings .
so much i can’t express it.
and what are you going to do with it ?
or are you just teasing ?
come on ,  you’re a fool ,  and driven to extreme measures by love .
i don’t speak to disprove what brutus spoke ,  but i’m here to speak what i know .
impatient that i was gone ,  and upset that young octavius with mark antony has made themselves so strong;—because that news came with the news of her death;—with all this ,  she became crazy ,  and ,  without her attendants present ,  swallowed fire .
not in my husband’s nose .
why, i do.
so ,  in that case ,  tell me who’s next in line to inherit the kingdom of naples ?
oh ,  what an excellent thing this learning is !
in an instant we were separated from them ,  as if in a dream ,  and brought here in a daze .
is it possible?
thanks ,  my dear lord .
but tell me seriously who it is .
caesar speaks .
in the end i grudgingly consented .
i’ll reward you for your troubles .
our bodies are like gardens and our willpower is like the gardener .
just do it carefully . —and to think that the noble and loyal kent has been banished ,  for the crime of telling the truth !
and when she speaks ,  doesn’t her voice stir up passion ?
he’s quite simply the smartest working - man in athens .
i have heard your grace has taken great pains to modify his stubborn course; but since he stands solid ,  and that no lawful means can carry me out of his envy's reach ,  i confront his fury with my patience ,  and i am ready to suffer the very tyranny and rage of his with a quiet spirit .
i shall obey, my lord.
and i do think— or else this brain of mine doesn’t know the trail of policy as surely as it used to do— ,  that i have found the very cause of hamlet's lunacy .
my lord ,  he’s afraid you mean him harm .
you juggler!
it is for your ears only .
it’s pretty .
let me hear what agrippa has to say .
it’s not in the contract .
come with me ,  and let’s smother my fiendish son—who smothered your two sweet sons—in bitter words .
never let such disagreements come between our souls!
there’s your boyfriend ,  sleeping right over there .
i won’t leave him alone until he gives cassio his job back . —how are you ,  my lord ?
why, with my lord, madam.
hey !
though cassio did only little wrong to him, as men in rage strike those that wish them best, yet surely cassio, i believe, received some strange insult from him that fled, which patience could not let him get away with.
i’d rather cut my tongue out of my mouth than say anything bad about michael cassio .
you are so naked and full of misery and you’re afraid to die ?
for assuredly ,  you are so near the abyss that you’re bound to be swallowed up .
when i burned in desire to question them further ,  they made themselves vanish into thin air .
you’re afraid of the boar but you go around without your spear ?
what do you think ?
my husband !
the worst welcome .
won’t it be understood ,  when we have marked those sleepy two of his own chamber with blood ,  and used their very own daggers ,  that they have done it ?
yes, hamlet.
then it’s no surprise they had a bad influence on him .
she has made a plan of how i shall take her from her father's house; what gold and jewels she has; what boy's suit she has ready.
my lord, i don’t know that i did cry.
my husband !
for that reason ,  good brutus ,  get ready to hear what i have to say; and since you know you can’t see yourself except in a mirror ,  i’ll be your mirror ,  and will modestly let you see that in yourself which you don’t know about .
had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge had stomach for them all.
i found that handkerchief by accident and gave it to my husband .
that way is to call her beauty ,  which is exquisite ,  more into question .
and now you decide to call a holiday ?
then ,  i’ll give it to you as payment .
but count claudio can stay ,  for what i’m about to say concerns him .
tell me again ,  where did you leave those lowlifes ?
have you forgotten the horrid witch sycorax ,  stooped over with old age and ill will ?
so ,  without further ado ,  the best thing to do now is probably just to shake hands and go our separate ways .
come, lieutenant, i have a bottle of wine; and here outside are a number of cyprus gents that would happily drink a round to the health of black othello.
with a web as little as this ,  i’ll catch as big a fly as cassio .
but if your soles are worn out ,  i can mend you .
what's best to do?
no ,  i beg you ,  listen .
only three?
my master’s house .
can any horse retrace his footsteps with the same energy he had when he walked them the first time ?
good night .
you have been talked about since your travel so much ,  for a quality where ,  they say ,  you really shine .
the duke in council !
nonsense, nonsense, it will not appear.
maybe ,  iago ,  i will never go home .
give me some comfort ,  nurse .
safely hidden.
perform the speech just as i taught you ,  musically and smoothly .
no ,  my lord .
heart ,  for once be stronger than all the rest of the body combined .
he is dead and gone, lady, he is dead and gone, at his head a grass green turf, at his heels a stone.
how is that royal merchant, good antonio?
i didn’t love you .
what's the matter?
the gods protect him from so great a shame !
i have thousands of logs to take away and pile up ,  on strict orders from him .
by my faith in love ,  i will ,  then .
my trusty servant ,  ariel !
no ,  you can’t do that until you take her hand and ,  in front of this friar ,  swear to marry her .
please stay below deck ,  sir .
it is monstrous .
only to be generous and give it to you once more .
give me the letter.
i don’t want to go mad .
is she as tall as i am ?
damn you ,  don’t mock and sneer at me .
turn ,  hell - hound ,  turn !
that lodovico is a good - looking man .
brutus shall lead ,  and we will follow him with the most boldest and best hearts of rome .
she wants to speak with you in her bedroom before you go to bed .
brutus" and "caesar.” what is in that name, "caesar?
i can see what’s in broad daylight .
or else this was a savage spectacle .
to ferdinand] one word more: i order you that you wait on me .
come on ,  let’s get going !
listen, she loved her cousin tybalt dearly, and so did i.
so i’m free .
watch her well; i beg you ,  look after her .
i will fetch off my bottle ,  although i’ll be head over heels in muck for my efforts .
keep myself ?
i’ll do everything a younger man could do for you .
please take them .
your majesty is quite right .
my lord, do as you please, but if you think it’s ok, after the play, let his queen mother talk to him all alone and beg him to share his problem.
lucius, a bowl of wine!
someone whose mood is as foul as the weather ,  very troubled .
i’ve been so tortured since i lost track of you !
why don’t you laugh ?
i demand this in the name of all the saints in heaven .
honest iago, looking dead with grieving, speak, who began this?
who is he that is going out the door now ?
i hope, in no place so unsanctified or shamed as where such as you may find him.
respect caesar's corpse ,  and respect his speech about caesar's glory ,  which mark antony is allowed to make with our permission .
i'll find either death or you immediately.
how’s my nephew doing ,  noble lord of york ?
i am sick at heart ,  when i behold seyton ,  i say !  -  this attack will give me the throne forever or unseat me now .
i’ll commute your death sentence .
are we betrayed before we have deserved it?
pitiful sight !
no man handles sorrow better .
i don’t want her .
o you foul thief, where have you hidden my daughter?
and tell the dauphin his joke will look pretty stupid when thousands more weep than ever laughed at it .
this is the day i’m going to get what i wished for when i wished that the person i most trusted would betray me .
listen a minute .
my fate cries out, and makes each and every vein in this body as hardy as the nerve of the lion killed by hercules.
dead.
what should we say, my lord?
tell me ,  my daughter juliet ,  what is your attitude about getting married ?
as i remember ,  this should be the house .
good volumnius, you know that we two went to school together; even because that our love of old, please, hold my sword handle while i run into it.
poor souls ,  they perished .
isn’t this stephano ,  my drunken butler ?
it’s a subject as worthy of endless discussion as the changing sea .
ask her to help you heal the rift between her husband and you .
look for the news.
tell antony, brutus is taken.
sir, in algeria.
you can’t trust anyone who abuses her own father ,  her flesh and blood .
fled to his house amazed .
we respected the beat of the song ,  sir .
i’ve been up all night .
who’s shouting  “ murder ”  ?
what ,  wake up ,  man !
you would play me, you would seem to know my holes to cover, you want to pick out the heart of my mystery, you would sound me from my lowest note to the my highest note, and there is much music, excellent voice, in this little pipe, yet you can’t play it.
goodbye .
lead ,  boy .
hey, daughter!
we don’t come ,  as we mean to content you ,  is our true intent .
your words ,  like your wounds ,  bring you honor .
here hung those lips that i have kissed i don’t know how many times.
i think it is the weakness of my eyes that sees this monstrous ghost .
here ,  villain ,  drawn and ready .
yes ,  even if i die an hour later .
but once he got there ,  the duke learned that lorenzo and his lover jessica were together in a gondola .
he’s written you a letter .
the duke cannot deny the course of law ,  because of the benefits that strangers have with us in venice ,  if it is denied ,  it will reflect very badly on the justice of the state ,  because the trade and profit of the city is from all nations .
follow that lord ,  and see you don’t mock him .
if i can cure him from his fever and tame him ,  and get him back to naples ,  he’d make a great present for any emperor .
we’ll watch them starve to death first .
today’s a holiday ,  so the beggar’s shop is shut .
now in the factory of thought ,  create the image of all london pouring forth into the streets .
poor birds do not fall down.
we seemed to have two separate bodies ,  but we had one heart .
i am no prostitute ,  but have life as honest as you that abuse me like this .
yes ,  it’s me .
some water will fix that .
those that call you hobgoblin ,  and sweet puck ,  you do their work ,  and they shall have good luck .
she that i spoke of, our great captain's captain, left in the company of the bold iago, whose footing here occurs earlier than the seven nights we thought it would take.
very likely; one of them is a plain fish ,  and ,  no doubt ,  marketable .
bless you ,  fair lady !
inside the little rind of this weak flower ,  there is both poison and powerful medicine .
stop that alarm from ringing ,  it’s scaring the islanders .
pluck off colorful butterfly wings ,  and use them to fan moonbeams away from his eyes as he sleeps .
honor ,  riches ,  marriage - blessing ,  long life ,  and many children ,  hourly joys be always yours !
father, what news?
that’s a good song .
tell me to run ,  and i’ll run .
so i thank you all ,  and i invite each and every one of you to come watch me be crowned king of scotland at scone .
you are too like the spirit of banquo .
helena ,  we’ll tell you about our secret plan .
young gentleman ,  you are too bold for your age .
speak !
stop hollering ,  man !
but don’t i have good reason to cry ?
very grave brabantio, i come to you in simple and pure soul.
come on ,  noble captain .
worthy macbeth, we are waiting for you.
not the one i gave you ,  i hope .
i think i can find him ,  if you’d please get a good guard ,  and go along with me .
but now i have joyful news for you ,  girl .
if you choose the one that contains my picture ,  we’ll be married right away .
everyone swears to these conditions who come to take a chance for my worthless self .
and how did she react to all this ?
two of them are completely honorable ,  and if they have been tricked in this ,  we must blame john the bastard ,  who lives to create conflict .
come, mistress, you must tell us another tale.
and you are hidden, sweetheart, even in the lovely garments of a boy.
what rhubarb, senna, or other purgative drugs, would do keep these english here healthy?
your emperor is still a king among gods .
i have a head, sir, that will find out where the logs are, i don’t have to bother peter.
if you hope to have your sins forgiven by christ’s dear blood ,  which he shed for our terrible sins ,  you must leave and keep your hands off me .
amen!
no ,  you must see with your father’s eyes .
put on a happy face ,  and welcome your friends .
where is demetrius ?
don’t tell me that you’ve heard about this marriage ,  friar ,  unless you can tell me how to prevent it .
like the wind ,  i must have the freedom to blast anyone i please ,  as fools do .
why not ?
you’re absolutely right .
alas ,  you don’t know .
no, sir, i did not give the finger to you, sir, but i did give the finger.
whoever he is that ,  in this disgusting event ,  has tricked your daughter of herself like this ,  and you of her ,  the bloody book of law you shall read yourself to the bitter letter of it as you see fit .
then why am i worried ?
fool !
it’s called the evil .
no, for that we should be coal miners.
come along with me .
just now, my lord.
help ,  my lord of norfolk ,  help ,  help !
my way of life is fallen into the dry, withered yellow leaf, and the things which should accompany old age, honor, love, obedience, troops of friends, i think i’ll have, but, instead of them, i’ll have curses, not loud, only deep, mouth-honor, breath, which the poor heart would gladly deny, and dare not.
o, he is crazy, laertes.
or had a friend who would be a man for me !
provide your vessels and your spells ,  your charms ,  and everything else beside .
oh lord ,  my spirits are tired !
this land will belong to your and albany’s children forever . —and now what does my second daughter regan ,  the wife of cornwall ,  have to say ?
oh painful day ,  oh painful day !
give me my principal, and let me go.
let’s fall on our swords .
everyone knows where a wasp wears its stinger .
rebellion's head will never rise until the wood of birnam rise ,  and our high - placed macbeth shall live until his dying day ,  the death of his own time and mortal custom .
no, when i have a favor to ask where i mean to touch your love indeed, it shall be full of confidence and heavy, and fearful to be granted.
what does this say ?
if i could add a lie to a fault, i would deny it; but you see my finger hasn’t got the ring on it; it is gone.
they are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that .
please ,  do me this one favor: find out what i’ve done to offend this knight .
my noble brother !
if partially connected or together in office ,  you deliver more or less than truth ,  you are no soldier .
you bastards !
supper is done ,  and we shall come too late .
next he slung his arm around the bride’s neck and kissed her with such a smack that when they parted the sound of their lips made the whole church echo .
fight to the death ”  is his motto .
if he offers to choose ,  and chooses the right chest ,  you would be refusing to perform your father's will ,  if you refused to accept him .
i will withdraw, but this intrusion shall, now seeming sweet, convert to bitter acid.
the play’s the thing to uncover the conscience of the king .
won’t you tell me who told you that ?
i can confirm that all these shocking things are true .
i wish the foolish girl were married to her grave!
i don’t think you would .
now ,  tybalt ,  take back again the word  “ villain ”  that you just gave me; for mercutio's soul is only a little way above our heads ,  waiting for yours to keep him company .
if you are already slain and not by me ,  my wife and children's ghosts will still haunt me .
be as your thoughts teach you; whatever you are ,  i am obedient .
the night has been unruly.
i hope he’s not anywhere so disreputable that thugs like you can find him .
yes ,  she saw me quite clearly .
and now that i have the boy, i will undo this hateful spell that i have put on her eyes.
yes ,  or hide the report in the pocket .
and when that time comes ,  then you can mock me ,  but please don’t pity me ,  because i won’t pity you .
are you considering desertion ,  as well ?
yeah, by my truth, the case may be amended.
nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some reason .
let’s shake hands all over again ,  one by one .
who’s there ?
you are the queen, your husband's brother's wife, and, i wish it wasn’t so, but you are my mother.
he carries himself like a dignified gentleman ,  and ,  to tell you the truth ,  he has a reputation throughout verona as a virtuous and well - behaved young man .
answer me this ,  please: where’s the money i gave you ?
my life for yours.
the lieutenant has to get to heaven before the ensign .
you’re a scholar, speak to it, horatio.
look out ,  i’m on my way up .
he wasn’t sad ,  because he knows that his disposition affects others .
when the talk was about the poisoning?
where do you look ?
how i adore on you!
just a man ,  like any other .
you’re right .
but i'll be hanged ,  sir ,  if he will put up with your insults .
when i burned in desire to question them further, they made themselves vanish into thin air.
freedom !
i’ll do it .
good gertrude, put a guard over your son.
what’s that ?
all covered with sweet flowers, which drowned in tears went to the grave with showers of true love.
you called ,  my lord ?
do you hear me ?
you kiss by the book .
therefore ,  my old age is like a blustery winter: cold ,  but kindly .
it is better to be tricked completely than to only suspect a little .
what’s going on these days ?
i stretch it out for that word “broad,” which added to the goose, proves you far and wide a broad goose.
i am not sorry either.
what, can the devil speak the truth?
who is that gentleman over there?
she is so free, so kind, so proper, so blessed a disposition, she holds it a sin in her goodness not to do more than she is asked.
my freedom.
now i could ,  casca ,  name a man to you that is most like this dreadful night ,  one that thunders ,  send lightening ,  opens graves ,  and roars ,  as the lion in the capitol does; a man no mightier in personal action; than you or i ,  yet he’s grown monstrous ,  and fearful ,  just as these strange eruptions are .
oh my !
go back and tell your king i do not seek an encounter with him now but would be willing to march on to calais without interference ,  for—to be honest ,  though it’s probably unwise to confess this to a powerful enemy who has the advantage—my men are considerably weakened by illness ,  my numbers reduced ,  and those few men i have almost no better than so many frenchmen ,  though when they were in good form ,  i tell you ,  herald ,  i thought three frenchmen walked on every pair of english legs .
oh dear !
and you’re my husband ,  right ?
these good fellows will bring you to where i am .
when has anyone ever put you down like that .
yes ,  other men have bad luck too .
he doesn’t speak latin ,  french ,  or italian ,  and you know how little english i speak .
or any of you ?
i’m more like an ancient roman than a corrupt modern dane .
so be quiet .
the prostitute's cheek, covered with makeup, isn’t more ugly to the thing that helps it than is my deed to my very artificial words.
the men there won’t give a penny to a lame beggar ,  but they’ll pay ten cents to look at a freak show exhibit .
well ,  start thinking about marriage now .
now go find the forest ranger .
take him to the surgeons .
i wish there wasn’t so much dew on the ground .
i remember ,  adam ,  that’s  here comes my master ,  your brother .
launcelot and i can’t agree on anything .
write this down; and say besides, that in aleppo once, where a malignant and a turbaned turk beat a venetian and double-crossed the state, i took the circumcised dog by the throat and killed him like this.
your servants always have their necessities ,  themselves ,  and what they own ,  in elegance ,  to make their reckoning of accounts at your highness' pleasure ,  still to return your own goods .
it seems that the sky would pour down stinking, boiling tar, except that the sea, mounting to the cloud’s cheek, puts the fire out.
with this there grows ,  in my most ill - composed affection ,  such a unbendable greed ,  that ,  if i were king ,  i should seize the nobles’ lands ,  desire their jewels ,  and their houses ,  and my wanting to have more would be as a sauce to make me hunger more ,  that i should start unfair quarrels against the good and loyal ,  destroying them for wealth .
and, to sink in it, you should outweigh love; too great oppression for a tender feeling.
we’re going to have an out - and - out brawl if i stay any longer .
let me shake your hand ,  salanio .
now i must go to the tomb alone .
is it my mother ?
see these letters are delivered ,  get the servants’ clothes made ,  and ask gratiano to come now to my house .
why ,  if two gods should play some heavenly match ,  and place a bet on two earthly women ,  and portia is one of them ,  there must be something else to bet on with the other ,  because the poor rude world does not have her equal .
let me go ,  sir ,  or i'll knock you over the head .
the wind sits in the best part of your sail, and the ship waits for you.
sinful macduff ,  they were killed because of you !
my lord ,  i have news for you .
no ,  my dearest love ,  i wouldn’t cheat you for the whole world .
goneril ,  are you coming with us ?
go on; directly.
have you forgotten her ?
poor lady ,  she’ll go crazy when she sees it’s missing .
i’m afraid something dangerous is coming toward you .
you’re mistaken.
but please ,  tell him how well i faked a faint .
what, here, horatio!
drown cats and blind puppies.
which one of them should i pick ?
here ,  stand behind this wall; he’ll come right away .
no ,  it is .
so i say ,  he has put up with all things well ,  and i think that ,  if he had duncan's sons in his prison ,  as ,  if it please heaven ,  he shall not ,  they should find what it meant to kill a father .
banquo ,  if your soul is going to make it to heaven ,  tonight’s the night .
you gentle romans,— peace, oh!
you will see me no more, whether he be dead or not.
am i to come near you now ?
three thousand dollars; it’s a good round sum .
my services that i have done for the signiory shall out-shout his complaints.
most beautiful pagan, most sweet jew!
exactly like that .
do the boys carry them away ?
oh ,  what a bloody end to all this !
after such a long period of grief ,  we will have such a celebration !
you’re right ,  sir .
but the critics and i found it to be an excellent play ,  with well - ordered scenes that were clever but not fancy .
don’t you see my baby suckling at my breast so that its nurse will fall asleep ?
take in the top sail .
come, he has hidden himself among these trees, to have a sexual liaison with the moody night.
take a good look ,  and you’ll see that one of the three men who rule the world has turned into a whore’s jester .
who is this maiden with whom you were at play ?
think so, iago?
as my child ,  i order you to do so .
for three months; right?
what if i had a rat in my house ,  and i felt like paying ten thousand ducats to have it exterminated ?
go on ahead .
a thousand times the worse for me ,  to want your light !
madam!
many men have sold their souls just to view my shiny surface .
please don’t tell me any more .
o most wicked ,  evil woman !
let’s do it.
good metellus ,  go to him now .
when i left him ,  he was less than nine miles from here .
at dinner .
do that ,  my friend .
why do you look so depressed today ,  your grace ?
i hope ,  sir ,  that you’re not angry that i’ve been equally attentive to you both !
oh ,  i followed something i’m ashamed to look at now !
take away this fool ,  gentlemen .
some god direct my judgment !
are you gone like that ,  my love ,  my lord ?
husbands need to know that their wives are human beings too .
o wonderful son ,  that can so astonish a mother !
now, my titania, wake up, my sweet queen.
what is the matter here ?
signor valentio and his cousin tybalt ,  lucio and the lively helena .  ”  that’s a nice group of people .
in my youth i truly suffered much agony for love almost like this.
here is a letter, lady, the paper is like the body of my friend, and every word in it, a gaping wound bleeding heavily.
how did you come here, tell me, and why?
she lied to me ,  and she may lie to you .
if i should say, i saw similar islanders,— because, truly, these are people of the island,— who, though, they are of monstrous shape, yet, notice that their manners are more gentle than those of our human generation that you shall find many, no, almost any.
i am your father's spirit ,  doomed for a certain time to walk the night ,  and during the day i am confined to burn in fires ,  until the evil crimes i had done in my life are burnt and purged away .
this king of naples, being an old enemy of mine, listens my brother's request, which was, that he, instead of the promises of allegiance and i don’t know how much protection money, should presently drive me and my family out of the dukedom, and give the fair city of milan, with all the honors to my brother: which, with a treacherous army recruited, on a midnight assigned to the purpose, antonio opened the gates of milan; and, in the dead of darkness, the ones given the job hurried me and your crying self from there.
his attendants are desperate ,  violent men .
throw your vile guesses into the devil's teeth ,  from where you got them .
no ,  it was just a dream .
i’ll help out ,  if only because he speaks the same language as me .
why ,  then ,  it’s time to put on my armor and instruct the troops .
you’re not paying attention to me .
he’s wearing yellow stockings .
will money buy them?
i told him that your father was in venice ,  and that you expected him to arrive in padua today .
you say so?
now i am alone.
i’d rather go without the money .
but be quiet ,  here comes thisbe .
everyone who does so is a traitor and should be hanged .
you stole it from her ?
i have a lot to do before noon .
i’ll send my prayers with him .
who’s closest to him ?
good night, good brother.
please ,  will you take his arm ?
good - bye .
farewell .
blessed my foot!
this is what happens when you visit whores .
where are his arguments now, his pens, his cases, his subpoenas, and his tricks?
regret and everlasting shame sit on our helmets ,  mocking us .
yes ,  you’ve been a ladies' man in your time .
well ,  i’ll hurry and put these papers where you told me .
good love, call him back.
what, dead, my dove?
now ,  by my mother’s son ,  and that’s me ,  it will be moon or star or whatever i want before i’ll travel to your father’s house .
why did you laugh then, when i said, “man doesn’t delight me”?
and we mean well ,  in going to this masquerade; but it’s no great sport to go .
look in on me then ,  and speak with me ,  or ,  naked as i am ,  i will attack you .
do you lie still ?
bring him before us .
why did he do it ?
coward !
fairies, let’s go.
i swear that it is so very, very late that we should call it early by and by.
you are welcome to elsinore.
i think it’s later than that ,  sir .
i do beg you, although i am, perhaps, vicious in my guess, as i confess it is a bad habit of mine to look deeply into wrongs, and to find faults that aren’t by my jealousy, that your wisdom still would take no notice from one that so imperfectly imagines things, or create a problem for yourself out of his scattered and unsure observations.
look, here he comes.
so ,  may the gods protect you and change the hearts of the romans so that they turn and give you their support .
it’s still warm from the cut .
here’s to caesar .
i’ll write him a taunting letter ,  and you can deliver it .
we'll act up like french falconers: fly at anything we see.
this is a foolish man without merit, good to be sent on errands.
i hate him so much it makes me sick ,  and whoever can ruin his happiness will make me happy .
what’s new ,  cousin lodovico ?
pronounce this sentence then women may fall when there's no strength in men.
my king says this:  “ tell harry of england: though we appeared dead ,  we were only asleep .
just a moment .
she’s a remarkable lady ,  if the rumors are to be believed .
help ,  charmian ,  help ,  iras ,  help !
where's the captain?
our shipwreck has made more women widows in milan and naples than there are survivors to comfort them .
do we have devils here?
truly ,  sir ,  so i can wear out their shoes to get myself more work .
i don’t like your faults .
look at it, horatio.
madam ,  how like you this play ?
go home ,  be merry ,  and agree to marry paris .
tonight, i will throw writings in his windows, all tending to the great opinion that rome holds his name, by several different hands, as if they came from several citizens, in these writings, i will analyze, although obscurely, caesar's ambition.
this book in many girls' eyes shares the glory ,  that with gold clips locks in the golden story; so you will share all that he possesses ,  by having him ,  you are doing no less than making yourself .
is it on record that he built it ,  or is it just word of mouth ?
a king of shreds and patches!
will you abandon her ?
go carry them ,  and smear the sleepy guards with blood .
i'll charm the air to give a sound ,  while you perform your antic round; that this great king may kindly say ,  our duties did his welcome pay .
that must mean a sword .
let him be caesar.
do you dare kill a friend of mine ?
every man is on his own for all the rest ,  and let no man take care for himself ,  because all is only fortune . —coragio !
now, good sweet nurse, o lord, why do you look sad?
who ever knew the heavens could be so threatening?
oh ,  i’ve read that .
set the honorable old man down and let him eat .
my lord ,  for all i know .
o, shut the door!
very bad .
i hope you will consider that what i have spoken comes from my love; but i see you're upset .
how about it ,  corporal nym ?
you lie out of it, sir, and therefore it’s not yours.
can you bring me to him ?
maria !
you are right .
we can’t think that way about what we did .
sadness is only appropriate for funerals .
in the meantime ,  i will draw a list of props ,  that our play needs .
now, my dear lady, by most strange accident, generous luck, has brought my enemies to this shore; and by my knowledge of things to come, i find my highest point depends on a very lucky star, that, if i don’t seek its influence now and overlook it, my fortunes will sink forever after.
what did that gentile fool say to you ,  hmmm ?
goodbye.
that's even more evil.
use every man according to his class ,  and who should escape whipping ?
don’t you agree that we owe it to him to tell him about this ,  out of duty and love ?
you would run away from a bear ,  but if the only way to run was into the stormy ocean ,  you’d turn around and confront the bear .
besides,—i haven’t used my sword since— i met a lion, in front of the capitol, who glared at me, and angrily passed me by, without attacking me, and there were a hundred ghastly women gathered in a heap, transformed by their fear; who swore they saw men, all on fire, walking up and down the streets.
that’s a cornish name .
wait !
who, he?
get me some poison ,  iago; this night .
you get trickier and trickier .
must i give way and room to your rash anger ?
why, the one that the moor first gave to desdemona; the one that you asked me so often to steal.
tell me ,  othello .
the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars, as daylight shames a lamp; her eyes in heaven would stream so brightly through the skies that birds would sing and think it was morning.
iago has orders on what to do; but, nevertheless, with my own eyes i will look to it myself.
stay!
come on and kiss me ,  kate .
nurse ?
rubbish !
have you written that letter to my sister yet ?
yes ,  like that .
who is it ?
the general is talking to you !
goodbye ,  goodbye !
no ,  leave him alone .
but don’t you see what a    did you hear someone ?
what’s with you ,  my lord ?
our friends are all waiting for you .
don’t hurt me ,  please .
i say  “ silver sound ”  because musicians makes sounds for silver .
truly, my name is cinna.
i’ll steal away to england ,  and i’ll steal some more when i get there .
i have to go .
i must leave them and seek some better employment .
i’ll be patient when the sea is patient .
appear in the likeness of a sigh.
so ,  if all turns out fine ,  as you say ,  it’s more than we deserve or i expect .
i have to do these things before i have a chance to think about them .
come on ,  boy .
i’ve always been straightforward with you ,  so now i’m telling you what i think .
yes ,  i’ll go .
if you really are sir rowland’s son ,  as you’ve just whispered to me—and i can absolutely see the likeness in your face— you are truly welcome here .
whatever antony shall speak, i’ll formerly declare that he speaks with our permission and that we are happy that caesar shall have all true rights and lawful ceremonies.
well, i’ll there.
he made you to be a highway to my bed; but i, a maid, die a maiden and a widow.
o, forgive me, you bleeding piece of earth, that i’m meek and gentle with these butchers!
i didn’t love you .
i wouldn’t want a heart like hers even if you made me queen .
the accessory of a welcome is fashion and ceremony .
does any man hate the thing he wouldn’t kill ?
if you remember your life before you came here ,  you may also remember how you got here .
and now you claim you gave it to a judge’s clerk !
see you soon .
look ,  here’s where cassius’s dagger pierced it .
is he dead ?
have i waited so long to see this morning ,  only to see this ?
cassio's a proper man .
didn’t you speak ?
so, so.
come hear ,  my dear hamlet ,  sit by me .
no ,  sir .
stand further away .
you’re making a terrible racket out here !
no ,  my lord .
relax ,  gentlemen .
will it eat me ?
farewell .
if this which he swears does appear, there is no flying from here or wasting time here.
no ,  no !
so, slave: get going!
her husband ,  you rascal .
are you still set on marrying my brother’s daughter ?
didn’t you tell me i should know the man by the athenian garments he had on?
i’ll give the first one ,  pompey .
three months from twelve months of the year .
madam, madam, madam!
roderigo.
the vapors ,  whizzing in the air give off so much light that i can read by them . —  " brutus ,  you sleep .
alas ,  alas !
if this proves to be a vision of the island, i shall lose one dear son twice.
then ,  rejecting my request ,  you kill
i know you are not lazy.
she's been made as fruitful as the free elements .
tell me how you have disposed of the king's ship, the sailors, and all the rest of the fleet?
the boy gives the warning something is approaching.
we’re off to eat and whoop it up at your father’s house .
now ,  i swear by apollo… by apollo ,  king ,  you’re taking the names of the gods in vain .
rebellious subjects ,  enemies to peace .
everything you told me i already knew .
catch me, catch me, wife.
nobody comes ?
one smile from him would repair my decayed beauty .
this direction is east.
oh ,  antony !
beautiful thoughts and happy hours attend on you !
strike as you did at caesar ,  because i know ,  when you hated him the worst ,  you loved him better than ever you loved cassius .
take his sword away from him .
have you come by night ,  and stolen my love's heart from him ?
oh ,  he’s a lovely gentleman !
a man, young lady!
oh god ,  what a heinous sinner i am ,  being ashamed to be my father’s child !
delay this marriage for a month ,  or a week .
you’re not going anywhere .
i have news ,  ma'am .
he’s lying through his teeth !
words, words, words.
don’t you see that i’m out of breath?
no thanks ,  my good mother .
oh ,  really ?
you know me well ,  and waste time here to twist a story about my friendship with examples; and ,  no doubt ,  you insult me by questioning the limits of my friendship as if you had wasted everything i have .
why ?
i’ve got the whole barrel ,  man .
prepare the body ,  then ,  and follow us .
this world is almost six thousand years old ,  and in all this time not one man has ever actually died from love .
i will reward your loyalty .
what man were you talking to at your window last night ,  between the hours of midnight and one ?
sweet gertrude ,  leave us too ,  for we have secretly sent for hamlet to come here ,  that here he may ,  as if by accident meet ophelia .
mine too ,  to join hers .
his affections don’t go that way ,  and what he said ,  though it was a little unorganized ,  wasn’t like craziness .
now ,  signior petruchio ,  how are you getting on with my daughter ?
cry ,   “ whoa !  ”  to your tongue ,  please .
we’ve been praying for our husbands' welfare .
i defy your solemn appeal, and i here arrest you as a felon.
why, he had none.
my royal lord ,  you’re not entertaining the guests .
the head is not more native to the heart, the hand more instrumental to the mouth, than is the throne of denmark to your father.
wherever you had it ,  i won’t take out any embroidery .
but, indeed, if you don’t find him within this month, you will smell him as you go up the stairs into the lobby.
i can’t admit that ,  since you’d have to compare his excellence to mine .
the services i have done for the venetian government will count for more than his complaints will .
he’s crying out for you and swears he’ll burn your face and disfigure you if he can get ahold of you .
right now i’d give a thousand
tomorrow  , at your earliest ,  let me speak with you .
stop your unholy work ,  vile montague !
now i could drink hot blood ,  and do such wicked deed that the day would shake nervously to see .
you haven’t heard of the war brewing between the dukes of cornwall and albany ?
their defeat grew by their own actions.
give him this money and these notes, reynaldo.
this is news indeed!
when she was dying she gave it to me and told me to give it to my wife when i got married .
i am thoroughly informed about the case.
the boy is warning me that someone approaches .
your husband.
mine too . —are you listening ,  monster ?
what we avoid when the mighty gods dictate how things go?
the moor’s mind has already become infected with my poisonous suggestions .
othello’s wife has a lot of influence now .
you treat me like a stranger unlike my usual self ,  when i wonder now how you can behold such sights ,  and keep the natural ruby of your cheeks ,  when mine are blanched with fear .
no, not to live!
what foreign lands has he conquered and captive foreigners chained to his chariot wheels ?
who’s thisbe ?
farewell .
the mousetrap.
that handkerchief you speak of i found by luck and gave it to my husband; because ,  he begged me to steal it often with a solemn earnestness ,  more than ,  indeed ,  belonged to such a trifle .
my lord ,  i have mementos of yours that i have longed to re - deliver to you for a long time .
are you over your ridiculous mood ?
i’ll do it ,  sir .
ride out to the horsemen on that hill .
gremio ,  this is no time to compete over how deeply we love bianca .
o ,  that the earth which kept the world in fear should patch a wall to expel the winter's cold !
i hid under this monster’s cloak to get out of the storm .
but my daughter should know about this ,  so she can be prepared with an answer just in case .
heavens shield lysander, if they really mean to fight!
good - bye .
before i open this letter ,  please tell me how my good friend is doing .
yes, my lord.
he’s close by ,  and pindarus has come to bring you greetings from his master .
no ,  when i have a favor to ask where i mean to touch your love indeed ,  it shall be full of confidence and heavy ,  and fearful to be granted .
why ,  how can you ,  hamlet !
conscience ,  ”  i say ,   “ you give good advice .  ”   “ devil ,  ”  i say ,   “ you give good advice .  ”  if i listened to my conscience ,  i’d stay with the jew my master ,  who’s a devil .
fillet of a snake that lived in a bog ,  in the caldron boil and bake; eye of newt ,  and toe of frog ,  wool of bat ,  and tongue of dog ,  a black snake’s forked tongue ,  and its cousin’s sting ,  lizard's leg ,  and owlet's wing ,  for a charm of powerful trouble ,  like a hell - broth ,  boil and bubble .
i don’t have the proud melancholy of a courtier or the ambitious melancholy of a soldier or the calculated melancholy of a lawyer .
so you’re around lady luck’s waist ?
give me some applause ,  if we’re friends ,  and robin will make everything up to you .
curse my hand if it ever threatened an old man like you .
shall i stay in this dreary world ,  which is no better than a pigsty without you ?
yet calm down.
hey, hey!
but fathers who are rich make their children kind .
and i’m expecting his reproach .
my lord !
what friend ?
come, gentle night; come, loving, black-browed night, give me my romeo; and, when he shall die, take him and cut him out in little stars, and he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night, and pay no worship to the glaring sun.
how shall this be done ?
we'll rebel .
forever and a day .
draw your sword !
give me your torch ,  boy .
what change is this ,  sweet love ?
very humbly ,  therefore ,  bowing to your state ,  i’d like proper provisions for my wife ,  proper respect for housing and subsidy ,  with such accommodation and suitable company as is equal with her breeding .
o, help him, you sweet heavens!
thanks for that .
when only one or two men have all the good manners ,  and even they are dirty ,  things are bad .
it is othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant general, that on certain news now arrived, concerning the mere total destruction of the turkish fleet, every man rejoice, some to dance, some to make bonfires, each man to whatever sport and revels his disposition leads him, because, besides this good news, it is the celebration of his wedding.
what sadness lengthens romeo's hours?
oh ,  you were an angel that saved me !
whom should we look for in the castle ? —whose job is it ?
you don’t really love me .
he would drown the stage with tears and split the audience’s with horrid speech, make the guilty crazy, and shock the innocent, confuse the ignorant, and amaze, indeed, the very faculties of eyes and ears.
my worthy cawdor !
i have a torchbearer.
that octavius ,  antony ,  and lepidus have put to death an hundred senators by decrees of death and bills in defiance of the law .
how does my good lord hamlet?
you desperate sea captain ,  now run your sea - sick weary ship onto the dashing rocks all at once !
now ,  by st .  george ,  my knighthood ,  and my crown— the first you profaned ,  the second you dishonored ,  and the third you stole .
i have never been so weary, never so sad, wet from the dew, and torn with briers; i can’t crawl any further.
get me out of here !
peace!
when i said that ,  i told you the truth .
is there no pity sitting in the clouds that sees into the bottom of my grief ?
it’s difficult to bring two friends together ,  but even mountains can be moved together by earthquakes .
yes indeed it is ,  sir .
a tanner will last you nine years.
trade me for a goat when i shall turn the business of my soul to such puffed up and blown suspicions ,  matching your suggestion .
it’s true ,  that wasn’t such a nice thing to do .
curse my heart, but i pity the man.
oh ,  you’re a naughty one ,  encouraging double - dealing .
what if i went no further and chose this one ?
i hope i enjoy wearing it ,  for my heart is very heavy .
what music is this ?
yes ,  boy .
i’m asking you to understand my point of view .
haven’t hurt your head?
are you busy now ,  holy father ,  or shall i come to you at evening mass ?
because from his bold words, and because he didn’t go to the tyrant's feast, i hear, macduff lives in disgrace.
i assure you ,  sir ,  there’s nothing to be afraid of .
look ,  your wife is with him .
don’t bother with it .
i’ll do that, my lord.
or tuesday noon or at night ,  or wednesday morning .
by my brotherhood ,  the letter was not a social one ,  but a message of great importance ,  and failing to deliver it may do a lot of damage .
your children will be kings .
but leave it all to god .
shall rome stand under one man's awe ?
if i ever see it ,  i will challenge you .
don’t believe it .
i will catch up with you ,  cleopatra ,  and weep for your forgiveness .
how silver-sweet is the sound of lovers' voices by night, like softest music to listening ears!
look at all the devoted servants who work for their masters their whole lives for nothing but their food ,  and then when they get old they’re terminated .
so many journeys may the sun and moon make us count again before love is finished !
you too .
squabbling ?
go disguise yourself as a sea nymph .
such welcome and unwelcome things at once are hard to reconcile .
come on ,  woo me ,  woo me .
i don’t want to go out of doors ,  yet something leads me there .
this way ,  my lord; the castle's gently surrounded .
my horse is a creature that i teach to fight ,  to wind ,  to stop ,  to run directly on ,  his bodily motions ruled by my whims .
the handkerchief !
did you give everything to your two daughters and end up like this ?
yes, other men have bad luck too.
i think i see these things with unfocused eyes ,  as when every thing seems double .
she gave it him, and he has given it his whore.
goodbye ,  cousin .
my lord ,  i don’t know what i should think .
pretend that you’re standing on the shore ,  watching a city dance on the shifting waves ,  and you’ll have an idea of the look of this majestic fleet as it holds a straight course for harfleur .
if get the opportunity, i will find where truth is hidden, though it were hidden indeed within the centre of the man.
why do you show me this?
what trouble i was to you then!
you say you don’t know what the lady thinks about this .
was he sad or happy ?
you feel love because you feel lust and you have no willpower .
your grave is gaping open ,  and your death is near .
shame on you!
there’s no doubt that petruchio’s got quite a catch .
your mother's poisoned .
god defend and guard us innocents against them !
bring out the suspects .
and though his feelings may be pitched higher than ours ,  when they plummet ,  they plummet that much farther .
with your permission, hostess.
i came here crying .
what we promise ourselves in a fit of passion, when the passion ends, so does the promise.
you mock an ancient tradition ,  born of reverence and worn in honor of brave men who have died ,  and then have the gall not to stand by your words .
did you call ?
i have a strange infirmity, which is nothing to those that know me.
his ship is heavily timbered ,  and his captain is very experienced and has a good reputation; therefore my hopes ,  not excessively fed to death ,  stand in heavy anxiety .
he doesn’t have any daughters ,  sir .
do i wrong my enemies ?
now ,  what kind of entertainment do we have to fill up the long three hours between dinner and bedtime ?
tybalt is gone ,  and romeo banished; romeo killed him; he is banished .
by my heel, i care not.
i think it looks like an invitation to excitement.
i hope you remember that i said all this because i love you .
it’s almost four .
listen ,  listen !
what revels are in store ?
the meats baked for the funeral were also put on the marriage tables.
well then ,  i’ll say this quickly: the valiant paris wants you as his bride .
i must tell you everything.
calm down ,  smulkin ,  you fiend !
he can’t go in there because of the candle .
after her ,  after her .
i’ll tell you ,  good brutus .
i hope to god he keeps his promise !
i have more reason to be distressed .
here and now i seem like antony ,  but i can’t keep myself in this form ,  my boy .
less than an ace, man; for he is dead; he is nothing.
this is the only witchcraft i have used.
be a nice fool and help me find a candle and some paper .
yes ,  i should know ,  but it disturbs me .
tybalt ,  i have a reason to love you that lets me put aside the rage i should feel and excuse that insult .
i think that one of them is still around here ,  and cannot make a getaway .
when you  “ dared ”  to do it ,  then you were a man; and ,  in order to be more than what you are ,  you would be so much more the man .
there comes an old man with his three sons— it sounds like the beginning of an old folktale .
the lark shrilly singing up there is too far away to be heard .
yes, and my father.
well ,  i hope you see things are done well there ,  adieu !
two of my brother’s men ,  all tied up !
then don’t move while i take my prayer's answer .
you are a good chorus, my lord.
oh dear gods !
you don’t have to tell us what lord hamlet said .
oh ,  this is treachery !
stay ,  give me drink .
call him .
i have heard your grace has taken great pains to modify his stubborn course; but since he stands solid, and that no lawful means can carry me out of his envy's reach, i confront his fury with my patience, and i am ready to suffer the very tyranny and rage of his with a quiet spirit.
she was utterly true to you !
they are .
out in the world ,  i’m like a drop of water ,  trying to find a drop that matches in the whole wide ocean .
a very pleasing night to honest men.
you threw it at her rudely ,  and she wants you to take it back .
right .
michael, good night.
you haven’t forgotten the half of a kingdom i gave you .
and affection ,  even if it’s just an act .
murderer !
why does he speak this to me whom he hates?
so, using my lecture and advice from before, you shall check on my son.
and after this ,  let caesar sit more securely on his throne ,  because we will shake him from there ,  or endure worse days .
no, it’s not as deep as a well, or as wide as a church door; but it’s enough, it will do.
what do you say to me now ?
neither my husband nor the slave has returned ,  even though i sent the slave off running .
don’t insult my master’s generosity by killing yourself .
first ,  noble friend ,  let me embrace you ,  whose honor can’t be measured or confined .
well ,  if you have to go ,  you have to go .
jesus ,  he’s an ass if there ever was one !
let him run far away .
an englishman ?
again !
can’t you talk about anything besides ladies ?
o, blood, iago, blood!
once he’s carried our treasure where we want it ,  we’ll free him of the load and turn him loose like a jackass ,  to shake his ears and graze in the public pastures .
there's none, or little of that.
since you know all this is true ,  why do you blame me for loving you ?
you know why i think so ?
give in, sweet hermia;—and, lysander, give up your crazy claim to my future bride.
indeed ,  you have wronged me ,  you liar .
yes ,  he was born at monmouth ,  captain gower .
we’ll mutiny .
o, a thousand, a thousand times.
there is a brief list of how many events there are; make choice of which your highness will see first .
yes ,  surely; o heaven !
then he says i didn’t return some ships he loaned me .
here hung those lips that i have kissed i don’t know how many times .
but since you’re his scoundrel servant ,  i will .
where’s potpan ?
if you don’t want to ,  then good riddance .
sir ,  the king— yes ,  what about him ?
therefore my son is embedded in the ooze; and i'll seek him deeper than a piece of lead ever measured how deep the water is, and i will lie there with him in the mud.
good.
go ahead and say you don’t love me ,  but not so bitterly .
i wish i could answer this comfort with a similar one!
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; fire ,  burn; and caldron ,  bubble .
pardon me ,  good lady; because ,  by these blessed candles of the night ,  if you had been there ,  i think you would have begged the ring from me to give the worthy doctor .
even like that ,  lucilius .
and do you now put on your best attire ?
i like you guys .
and yet it is almost against my conscience.
then it is he; the rest that are nobles are already in the court.
be god's sonties ,  it will be a hard way to go .
therefore ,  farewell .
he accuses me of withholding his share of sextus pompeius’ possessions ,  which we seized in sicily .
the duke and senators of venice greet you.
please understand a plain man in his plain meaning: let your fellows come on ,  bid them cover the table ,  serve in the meat ,  and we’ll come in to dinner .
well ,  that’s an  stay ,  fellow .
you come here with letters against the king ,  and you take his conceited daughter’s side against his royal highness .
the friar’s ready .
now this is where you come in .
the scripture says adam digged .
will you show the whole wealth of your wit al at once?
look in on me then, and speak with me, or, naked as i am, i will attack you.
o ,  a thousand ,  a thousand times .
the moon, i think, looks as if she has watery eyes, and when she weeps, every little flower weeps, lamenting some enforced chastity.
o, you will speak again of banishment.
please calm down ,  uncle .
his drugs work quickly .
if the king hadn’t resembled my father as he slept ,  i would’ve done it .
i just did my duty ,  sir .
now i’ll tell you so you don’t have to ask .
good day and happiness to you ,  darling rosalind .
mr .  antonio ,  many times and often in the marketplace you have abused me about my monies and my interest rates; i still have taken it with a patient shrug ,  because suffering is the badge of all our tribe; you call me misbeliever ,  cut - throat dog ,  and spat on my jewish clothes ,  and all because of using of that which is my own .
don’t you know he has ?
was that my father that went away so fast?
by mary, well said, very well said.
i can’t go any further .
you'll be the man!
no ,  let the sweet tongue lick ridiculous vain glory ,  and bend the obvious hinges of the knee where poverty may follow flattery .
come talk to me tomorrow as early as you can . —come with me ,  my dear love .
you shall remain a prisoner ,  until the nature of your crime is known to the venetian state .
what ,  will the line stretch out to the crack of doom ?
no ,  i won’t take a husband until they make men out of something other than dirt .
i’ll go with you .
you did .
i have watched two nights with you, but i can perceive no truth in your report.
if i thought, sir, that i was well awake, i'd try to tell you.
is it so stated in the promise to pay ?
you lie about her, and you are a devil.
do you think so ?
i won’t take it back .
what do you mean by that ?
if you call me jephthah, my lord, i have a daughter that i love passing well.
get out ,  low - life !
were you with rosaline ?
i have only come in—like the others have—to try to fight him with the strength of my youth .
i’m going to laugh myself to death over this silly monster .
what do you want me to do with this ?
you have the best sorts of happiness to enjoy .
i have a daughter named katherina ,  sir .
i can’t believe that .
if she can’t find out what his secret is ,  then send him off to england or wherever you think best .
what does she say ,  madam interpreter ?
not one ,  my lord .
fly, for that reason, noble cassius, fly far off.
for hecuba !
i know my nails are stronger than my eyes; i’ll scratch them out .
were these things we’re talking about really here ?
what’s the matter ,  my love !
why, that’s the coroner’s finding.
this afternoon ,  sir ?
will you come to bed ,  my lord ?
he has captured toryne .
my lord ,  i won’t .
we’ve got it now . —do you see this ,  my good fellow ?
i gave you my vow before you asked for it ,  and yet ,  i wish i could give it again .
he’s the most stubborn dog that ever lived among humans .
maud ,  bridget ,  marian ,  ciceley ,  gillian ,  ginn !
i am commanded home .
therefore ,  willingly and yielding .
if i could add a lie to a fault ,  i would deny it; but you see my finger hasn’t got the ring on it; it is gone .
in a town of war still waging, the people's hearts brimful of fear, to control private and domestic quarrels, at night, and on the court and guard of safety!
i am sorry that you cannot stay .
where should she be?
our reasons are so full of good regard that were you ,  antony ,  the son of caesar ,  you should be satisfied .
that will kill our lovers .
yes ,  you poor ghost ,  as long as i have any power of memory in this distracted head .
caesar himself is in trouble and there are more adversaries than we expected .
lady ,  shall i lie in your lap ?
did you just give us the finger, sir?
yes, he’s a cunning fellow indeed, because he doesn’t do a thing but talk about his horse; and he makes it a great attribute to his own good qualities that he can shoe him himself; i am very afraid, my lady, his mother had an affair with a blacksmith.
what devil was it that trick you like this with a blindfold?
and, noble signior, if virtue is missing delightful beauty, your son-in-law is far more just than black.
oh that my prayers could be answered with such affection !
goodbye .
when i was in school, when i had lost one arrow, i shot another one of identical length in an identical way, with more thoughtful care, to find the one i lost, and by risking both, i often found both.
yes ,  monstrous ,  monstrous !
i still see you, and i see great, large clots of blood on your blade, which were not there before.
no .
and throw this dead peasant into the manure pit . —regan ,  i’m bleeding .
freedom ,  high day !
no .
be convincing .
why do you keep these talents behind a curtain ?
oh ,  except for the widow dido ?
either the lovers have different social standings—
am i not wise ?
accept it in body and spirit .
this is my biological father, who, being more than half-blind, nearly stone blind, doesn’t know me: i’ll try to confuse him.
my cesario ?
laertes ,  was your father dear to you ?
pardon ,  my lord .
will all great neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hand?
i drink this vial to you.
his spirits listen to me, and yet i have to curse.
is it good evening ?
what news do you bring ?
go ,  mardian ,  and let me know how he reacts to my death .
i have given you strong proof of my constancy ,  giving myself a voluntary wound here in the thigh .
metellus cimber?
hamlet .  ”  dutifully and obediently my daughter showed me this letter ,  and more like it .
i know well where he is.
where have you been ,  sister ?
oh ,  sirs ,  if i stirred your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage ,  i would offend brutus and cassius ,  who ,  you all know ,  are honorable men .
oh painful ,  painful ,  painful day !
i have put on those sheets you asked me to .
give me another horse !
there were no primary ones .
fever ,  as we know ,  is a kind of madness .
what do these master - less and gory swords mean by lying here with blood on them in this place of peace ?
how many noblemen were killed in the battle you just fought ?
do you want my true opinion ?
love’s messengers should be thoughts ,  which fly ten times faster than sunbeams .
this is a bad joke of theirs to frighten me.
our troops are deployed tomorrow .
looking at the guts of an offering ,  they couldn’t find a heart inside the beast .
what on earth does that mean ?
i love you so much that i’ll send your soul to heaven very soon—if heaven will accept anything from me ,  that is .
what victory does he bring home ?
it was yesterday ,  your highness .
you call this house dark ?
you can do what you want ,  but he’s an experienced and honorable soldier .
it looks just like the dead king !
ah ,  i’ve got it !
nothing ,  my lord ,  or if i did—i don’t know what .
you can’t go any further with us ,  sir .
where is our usual manager of mirth ?
there may be a time for everything ,  but no man who has gone bald naturally can get his hair back .
here ,  my lord .
it’s time we were going .
one of them contains my picture ,  prince; if you choose that ,  then i am yours as well .
unreal mockery ,  here !
sir ,  sir ,  sir—
adultery ?
you shall not go ,  my lord .
did you notice how the queen’s guilty relatives turned pale when they heard about clarence’s death ?
as the time ,  the place ,  and the condition of this country stands ,  i could heartily wish this had not happen ,  but since it is what it is ,  fix it for your own good .
why, now i see there's spirit in you; and even from this instant, you build a better opinion of yourself than ever before.
i think we are too bold to interrupt your sleep .
my plans take me a roundabout way .
darling kate !
meanwhile ,  we’re the ones who need you .
i didn’t like the way a particular courtier had cut his beard .
that governs the torso and heart ,  doesn’t it ?
actually i think i would ,  and then i’d undo it after i did it .
indeed !
why ,  sir ,  you know this is your wedding day .
o most bloody sight !
he is the general challenger .
half of your wealth goes to antonio .
if she wants to be proud ,  or  “ honest ,  ”  as she calls it ,  she can just marry her own pride .
he is gone, he is gone, and we go away crying.
and even for that ,  i love you all the more .
very well .
didn’t great julius bleed for justice's sake?
some people will laugh at anything ,  and others are so grouchy they won’t even crack a smile when they hear something hysterically funny .
the gods know— oh ,  never has a queen been so betrayed as i have been .
my beautiful warrior !
yes signior ?
but i think—i want to tell you the truth ,  and now that i think about it ,  i think this is true—i came here with hermia .
that’s a nice hat you’ve got there .
either go someplace private ,  or talk it over rationally ,  or else just go away .
i have letters that say the same thing.
she is ten times more gentle than her crabby father ,  and he's made of harshness .
what villain, madam?
if i break the door down ,  slave ,  you’ll be sorry for this .
oh ,  he looks like a pathetic sunday school teacher .
goddammit !
angels and ministers of grace defend us !
but who’s here ? —lysander !
quiet !
there are parents living whose children you have butchered; they are now old withered plants who will moan over their losses as they grow old .
and died from that ?
what i think about this ,  and about what’s happening here in rome ,  i’ll tell you later .
nor is it up to you ,  my lord .
at full speed ,  at full speed; or i'll cry a match .
take me to octavius .
it is born.
let’s have him land and solemnly proceed to london .
why do you think i’m making fun of you when i tell you i love you ?
but now i have joyful new for you ,  girl .
i don’t want to take another man’s second - hand goods .
read the will!
why, now you speak like a good child and a true gentleman.
yes ,  i’ll say it again ,  my lord .
good night ,  lord brutus .
the prince will sentence you to death if you are taken prisoner.
i’ll always be loyal to you ,  sir .
they’re all welcome.— what worries are keeping you from sleeping?
thanks, my dear lord.
welcome, horatio.
the king will already have left southampton .
your majesty !
are your doors locked ?
in parthia i took you prisoner; and then i made you swear, since i saved your life, that whatever i asked you to do, you should attempt it.
it takes a wise father to know his own child .
my good lord ,  tell it .
his arrival fits perfectly into my plan .
now i change my mind, and partly credit things that have been predicted.
three of the carriages are very imaginatively designed ,  and they match the fencing accessories .
in every detail .
don’t be afraid of her company.
that’s a sin young men often commit because they allow their eyes to wander .
come, love and health to all; then i'll sit down.
but silence; here comes thisbe.
thank you ,  tubal .
i have done no more to caesar than you shall do to brutus.
why ,  she challenges me like a muslim would challenge a christian .
o, hardness to lie!
well ,  sir .
that’s it ?
i didn’t think he had been acquainted with her.
do it, england, because, he rages like the pace of my blood, and you must cure me.
so much so, dear lords, if i am left behind, a moth of peace, and he goes to the war, the rites for which i love him i am deprived of, and i shall endure a sad interval caused by his dear absence.
i owe you nothing until i receive the necklace .
how are you, desdemona?
but was this near the shore ?
you shall advise me in everything having to do with cleopatra .
nurse ?
michael cassio ,  lieutenant of the moor othello ,  has arrived on shore .
caius ligarius doesn’t like caesar ,  who berated him for speaking well of pompey .
what woman then?
yes ,  damn it ,  it was ,  and he pushed it aside three times ,  every time more gently than the last ,  and at each pushing aside ,  my honest neighbors shouted .
and hippolyta.
alas, why do you chew your nether lip so?
god mark you for his grace!
i swear that it is so very ,  very late that we should call it early by and by .
what are you thinking ?
then sweno ,  norwegian king ,  wanted a treaty; we would not agree to the burial of his men until he paid us ,  at saint colme's island ,  ten thousand dollars to our general use .
let them in.
what would happen to you ,  if the king of naples heard you ?
well ,  to be on the safe side—so i don’t go back on my promise—i plan to get myself married to a wealthy widow within the next three days .
it would be good she were spoken with, because she may scatter dangerous ideas in rude minds.
your brother is young and inexperienced ,  and because of my affection for you ,  i’d hate to crush him—though i’d have to ,  if he challenged me .
very well .
and then ?
the lunatic ,  the lover ,  and the poet are all compact in their imagination .
in the secret parts of fortune?
caliban  stephano !
of course he is ,  and so are you .
tybalt ,  old capulet’s nephew ,  has sent a letter to romeo’s father’s house .
who do you obey here ?
i hear a noise inside .
oh luck ,  luck .
so i’d like it copied .
truly, it must be a liar who could swear on both sides of the scale against either side, who committed treason enough for god's sake, yet couldn’t lie to heaven.
i’m proud to be sir rowland’s son—his youngest son—and i would never change that ,  not even to be frederick’s adopted heir .
please put that log down and rest a while .
the only thing you can sense are punches—just like an ass .
if my eyes don’t deceive me ,  you are my rosalind .
o monstrous act!
where do you look?
come on .
oh ,  lord !
never ,  iago .
we must be patient .
if the turkish fleet is not sheltered and in a bay, they are drowned; it is impossible to wait it out.
it is silliness to live when to live is torment; and then we have a prescription to die when death is our physician .
no .
i think it is very sultry and hot for my complexion .
if you want things done in the right way ,  you’ll have to let me read a crazy letter in a crazy voice .
and then, of so gentle a disposition!
why should people like me be crawling around between earth and heaven ?
sweet predictions ,  good !
indeed ,  it’s a strange time .
am i to be dictated to ,  like a child ?
at my poor house look to behold this night women like earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light.
he took my father grossly, full of food, with all his sins on his soul, as full of bloom as may, and how his report stands, who knows except heaven?
gentlemen ,  please try to sharpen his interest even more ,  and let this play do him some good .
demetrius ,  i will keep my word with you .
i have .
where joy celebrates ,  grief mourns greatly ,  grief joys ,  joy griefs ,  on a very slender event .
it is not lost; but what if it were?
is this the madman ?
tubal ,  a wealthy hebrew of my tribe ,  will supply me .
murder!
yes ,  i see them coming .
it’s gone .
i must be one of these same dumb wise men ,  because gratiano never lets me speak .
he's what he is .
if you act like my daughter ,  i’ll marry you to my friend .
don’t hurt me .
no ,  cassio is not killed .
i wouldn’t insult him in my own house for all the wealth in this town .
well ,  good - bye ,  portia .
please be quiet .
curse you for your false appearances !
the most beautiful queen they ever had .
you heard her say it wasn’t me .
how do you, pretty lady?
sir ,  octavius has already come to rome .
you left him out in the storm in the black night ,  bareheaded ,  a storm so terrible that if it had happened at sea ,  the waters would have risen up and extinguished the fire burning in the stars .
before we were even at sea for two days, a very nasty looking pirate chased us.
you get only one round .
caesar wouldn’t take the crown .
to a convent, go, and quickly too.
and pay attention to what caesar does and which men are close to him .
wake up, i say!
is marcus luccicos in town ?
with that ,  i’ll be off .
why, shall we turn into men?
and pick a fight with my own shadow ?
i’m telling you ,  aliena ,  i can’t stand being apart from orlando .
not having the thing that would make them short hours .
good husband ,  come home soon .
o, a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet.
what ,  can the devil speak the truth ?
close your curtain ,  love - performing night ,  so that rude eyes may look away ,  and romeo can leap to these arms ,  un - talked about and unseen .
we’ll begin the ceremony the way we hope it will end—with delight .
therefore ,  accept my everlasting farewell .
don’t dishonor your mothers !
if we’d been able to put on our play ,  we would have had it made .
aren’t you my father ?
why are your swords out ?
what is the matter?
don’t dislike me for my complexion ,  the dark clothing of the polished sun ,  to whom i am a neighbor ,  and born near it .
out ,  i say !
and as for his dreams ,  i’m surprised he’s so foolish as to trust the fantasies of a restless night .
his running away has everything to do with fear and nothing to do with love .
you may appreciate him more as a soldier than as a scholar .
mark antony , — pardon me ,  caius cassius .
what does that have to do with my lysander ?
it was tossed into the window of my room .
do you know this water-fly?
grab his sword from him.
those guards that macbeth has slain.
make sure the ones who have wronged you suffer too .
let’s get out of here !
woe, alas!
damn, damn you, prostitute!
then will i give you the serving-creature.
let’s think about what has happened; and, later, when we’ve had a chance to think, let’s about these things openly each to other.
all i’m asking for is to have that little human boy as part of my crew .
into my grave .
yes ,  and be wise .
even if we don’t fight foreign enemies ,  we’ll beat down these rebels at home .
what was that cry for ?
how did he say good - bye ?
is that a lot of      he says his name is master fer .
and in this headstrong state, kills the hidden good old man.
i tricked your own eyes .
ready .
did you inform them of that ?
what have you got on your head ?
the more i pray ,  the less grace i have .
you may do it off the top of your head, because it’s nothing but roaring.
tell him my fury will abate ,  and i’ll take the crowns .
he was dressed so oddly too !
run to the capulets .
no, before the sun advances his burning eye, to cheer the day and to dry night's dank dew, i must fill up this, our cage made of reeds with baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
before you got so angry ,  i never would have thought that .
it’s late.
he speaks well.
o ,  i see that nose of yours ,  but not that dog i shall throw it to .
god doesn’t need to use indirect or illegal means to kill those who have offended him .
no.
but montague is the same restrictions as i am ,  the same penalty; and it should not be hard ,  i think ,  for men so old as we to keep the peace .
this might be the head of a politician ,  which this ass now reaches over one that would go around god ,  might it not ?
oh ,  monster ,  we know secondhand clothes when we see them . — take off that gown ,  trinculo .
i’ll go on with my speech praising you ,  and then i’ll get to the point .
what?
i heard them say brutus and cassius are riding like madmen through the gates of rome .
go ,  pindarus ,  climb a little higher on this hill .
my eyesight has always been bad .
weren’t you banished on pain of death ?
you’re really on time .
the gods have ordained it to be like this ,  sir .
i have been in similar a pickle since i saw you last that ,  i’m afraid ,  will never get out of my bones .
and my heart too .
the higher the nile flows ,  the better the harvest .
i’ll never see my gold again .
where is your leather apron and your ruler?
you don’t love me .
where is my lord?
the hell with her !
why do you stay?
tomorrow we'll speak among ourselves ,  again .
i’ll help you .
ugly ,  wrinkled witch ,  what are you doing here ?
your scolding is somewhat overblown .
no; we shall never win a bet at that sport .
good friends ,  sweet friends ,  don’t let me stir you up to such a sudden flood of rebellion .
your master is a wise and valiant roman; i always thought so.
but you can make amends now .
and what should i give you that would be equal in value to this rare and precious gift ?
my soul and not my child !
what, gone?
it just happens ,  the way gentle rain drops on the ground .
if he doesn’t show up ,  the play is ruined .
i look down towards his feet; but that's a fable.
oh ,  damn you ,  stubborn dog !
worthy sir ,  greetings !
i was ordered not to .
what seems sweet to him now will soon turn bitter .
it would be good for you to do so much for charity.
to show you that that’s me ,  let me prove it a little even in this case .
but pardon me .
yet you killed my children .
i did .
the street is narrow here .
when they see the face of caesar ,  they will vanish .
bloody, bawdy villain!
she said she loved me for the dangers i’d survived ,  and i loved her for feeling such strong emotions about me .
aren’t you moved ,  when the entire earth is shaking uncontrollably ?
to leave his wife ,  his children ,  his house ,  and his titles in a place so unsafe that he himself flees it !
there, my blessing with you!
then crush this herb into lysander's eye; its juice has the virtuous property of removing all error from his eyes and will make his eyeballs roll with correct sight.
why ,  sweet othello—   i haven’t done anything to deserve this !
you speak honestly.
follow me, then, to a clear place.
i will, my lord.
hit them !
please ,  go away .
you’ll feel the loss, but not the loss of the friend you weep for.
i’m telling you ,  it was carthage .
every day you get me out of the way with some plan ,  iago; and rather ,  as it seems to me now ,  keep from me all convenience than supplies me with the least advantage of hope .
it’s hard to make sense of such different stories .
all torment, trouble, wonder and amazement live here.
sometimes a thousand twanging instruments will hum about my ears; and sometimes voices, that, if i then had wakened after long sleep, will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming, the clouds i thought would open and show riches ready to drop on me; that, when i wakened, i cried to dream again.
their senses thus weakened ,  lost within their strong fears ,  made senseless things begin to do them wrong ,  because briers and thorns catch their clothes ,  some sleeves ,  some hats .
welcome, gentlemen!
in the beautiful city of verona ,  where our story takes place ,  a long - standing hatred between two families erupts into new violence ,  and citizens stain their hands with the blood of their fellow citizens .
if they do this ,  as they will ,  god willing ,  my ransom will soon be raised .
it’s very strange .
what do you think about macduff’s refusing to be at our great bidding ?
i'd believe as quickly that this whole earth may be bored, and that the moon may creep through the centre and so disrupt her brother's noontide with the other side of the world.
where did you leave him ?
come ,  cassius' sword ,  and find titinius' heart .
he has ,  my lord; but be well assured ,  no more than he'll deny .
get out ,  insolent eunuch !
they burn for revenge .
but i won’t leave this spot ,  no matter what they do .
by mary, now i can tell.
one ?
don’t wake her .
i’d rather carry a reed that obviously can’t protect me than a sword i cannot lift .
sir, his refinement suffers no lie from you, although, i know, to divide him like an inventor would make the memory dizzy with arithmetic, and yet not off course, in regard to his quick sail.
the fair ophelia !
it’s strange, my theseus, the story that these lovers speak of.
oh ,  i’ve been murdered unfairly !
in my travels ,  great scholars have come up to me ,  meaning to greet me with well - rehearsed welcoming speeches ,  and i have seen them tremble and turn pale ,  and pause inappropriately in the middle of their sentences ,  and botch their well - rehearsed tones of voice because they’re so nervous ,  and then break off abruptly at the end ,  without actually welcoming me .
how may the duke be satisfied with that ,  whose messengers are here by my side ,  on some urgent business of the state ,  to bring me to him ?
tell me what you’ve done with the money i entrusted to you .
hortensio ,  what’s all this about ?
now ,  on my life ,  the young child must be headed to the tower to greet the young princes ,  whom she adores .
for doting, not for loving, my pupil.
how?
look !
i’ll be right here ,  silent .
oh me!
did my heart love till now ?
i’m here ,  full of anger ,  to complain about my daughter hermia . —step forward ,  demetrius . —my lord ,  this man ,  demetrius ,  has my permission to marry her . —step forward ,  lysander . —but this other man ,  lysander ,  has cast a magic spell over my child’s heart . —you ,  you ,  lysander ,  you’ve given her poems ,  and exchanged tokens of love with my daughter .
you’ll see that caesar is giving you no reason to do so .
i will ,  caesar .
excuse me ,  my lord ?
i have had a most rare vision .
this is going to be great !
we’ve all been duped .
the emperor is calling for canidius .
good night .
saint valentine’s day is past; do these forest-birds begin only now to make a couple?
he’s lying dead in a ditch ,  with twenty deep gashes in his head ,  any one of which would have been enough to kill him .
i will too .
come ,  let’s go to the castle .
why are you doing this ?
i’m done for .
my lord sebastian ,  the truth you speak lacks some gentleness and proper timing; you rub the wound ,  when you should bring the band - aid .
i can’t believe it .
brutus ,  my country’s friend .
good ,  sir ?
whatever antony shall speak ,  i’ll formerly declare that he speaks with our permission and that we are happy that caesar shall have all true rights and lawful ceremonies .
instead ,  hide your true face behind smiles and friendliness .
how long is it now to the middle of july ?
you could have come sooner .
i don’t understand.
it’s a shame ,  there is more danger in your eye than twenty of their swords .
if this proves to be a vision of the island ,  i shall lose one dear son twice .
what then ?
why, as a woodpecker caught in my own trap, osric.
i’m going to ask her to let me talk to desdemona .
come ,  come ,  nerissa ,  because i long to see quick cupid's messenger that comes so politely .
from this moment the very first wishes of my heart shall be the firs actions of my hand.
this is no answer ,  you unfeeling man ,  to excuse the flowing of your cruelty .
get out of here ,  you blathering peasant !
so ho!
it was the owl that shrieked ,  the fatal bellman ,  that gives even the worst dispositions a good night .
how sound asleep she is !
whisper to her that ursula and i are walking in the orchard and that we’re talking all about her .
anyway ,  what’s up ?
my husband said she was unfaithful !
what noise is here ?
have you written that down ,  that they aren’t criminals ?
the sorrow that i feel actually belongs to you ,  and the high life you enjoy actually belongs to me .
what’s the news?
listen ,  hortensio .
my ships will come home a month before the money is due .
i can get you five hundred ropes for that price .
brutus speaks .
you devil ,  you’ve put a spell on her !
her bottom .
take it to your master and bring him home immediately .
i do dare ,  and i say that you are the villain .
you elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes, and groves; and you that chase the ebbing ocean on the sands without leaving a foot print, and run from him when he comes back; you half-puppets that make the green ringlets sour by moonshine, where the ewe doesn’t bite; and you whose pastime is to make midnight mushrooms that are happy to hear the curfew sound; by whose aid,— weak masters though you are,—i have dimmed the noontide sun, called the mutinous winds, and set roaring between the green sea and the blue sky: i haven given fire to the dreaded rattling thunder, and split jove's stout oak with his own lightning bolt: i have made the strong-based land that stuck out into the ocean shake; and plucked up the pine and cedar by the roots: at my command, graves have awakened the dead, opened the coffins, and let them walk out by my so powerful magic.
you have disrupted the fun, broken up a good party, with very admirable chaos.
that’s the one .
listen to me me ,  good brother .
because you’re like the lowborn fellow who strikes the bell—you keep interrupting my thoughts .
have you not dropped from heaven?
oh ,  come quickly !
what ,  are you crazy ?
well ,  what do you guess ?
good mercutio!
what are your names ?
i will say as much to his face .
it’s a big prize for such a small sin .
when truth kills truth, oh devilish-holy fight!
by heaven ,  that’s my handkerchief !
what’s my name ?
how long is that since?
here ,  drink to me .
are there scales here to weigh the flesh?
calphurnia !
they’ll be here tomorrow or the next day .
one criminal punishes another .
is it true ,  is it true ?
let’s meet as little as we can .
follow that gentleman now ,  and be careful not to make fun of him .
you and i cannot be held within the confines of a country’s arbitrary customs ,  dear kate .
oh ,  how brave of you !
if what you feel is really love ,  tell me how much .
play me some music .
what kind of hands are these ?
because if she is not honest ,  chaste ,  and true ,  there's no man happy; the purest of their wives is wicked as the leis about them .
no, i’m sure of it, volumnius.
why rejoice ?
o jephthah, judge of israel, what a treasure you had!
what’s going on?
is the king leaving here today ?
but if you do fight ,  sir ,  then i will fight you .
searching the window for a match ,  i found this paper sealed up like this ,  and i’m sure it wasn’t there when i went to bed .
yes ,  truly ,  so humbled that he has left part of his grief with me to suffer with him .
will it be chased away by bowing and scraping ?
my lord, we must be alone now.
murder ,  murder !
look, here she comes.
no ,  you’re just reminding me of something i’ve also noticed .
that’s cassio’s voice .
my lord, he has courted me with love in honorable fashion.
and for three months.
the woman who might have blocked you from all the murders you’ve committed by strangling you in her cursed womb .
my husband lives, that tybalt would have slain, and tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband.
oh ,  my liege ,  my wife died tonight .
come on ,  sister .
carry him to my best room—gently ,  so he doesn’t wake—and hang all my erotic paintings around him .
ungodly and monstrous !
it makes us or it ruins us; think on that ,  and make your resolution very firm .
well ,  god protect you !
insulting hermia!
don’t say that ,  lysander .
what ?
so go in peace .
if he’s been spending his leisure time in lustful pursuits ,  then he’ll be punished with venereal diseases ,  and that’s his business .
and what says my hidden lady to our canceled love ?
if i’m not dreaming ,  you are emilia .
draw your sword ,  you jerk !
if i could welcome the fifth with as good a heart as i can bid the other four goodbye, i would be happy of his arrival; if he has the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil, i would rather he heard my confession than marry me.
let’s have more sex in the world ,  since gloucester’s bastard son was kinder to him than my daughters ,  conceived in lawful wedlock ,  have been to me .
i would rather tell you what to be afraid of more than what i am afraid of, for i’m always caesar.
we’ll let you .
what’s the matter with you now ?
the citizens are up ,  and tybalt is dead .
come on ,  sir .
he and lepidus are at caesar's house .
it is clean out of the way .
why, lady!
oh ,  cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
i'll send a friar to mantua quickly ,  with my letters to romeo .
fast asleep ?
moth !
is he here ?
that’s terrible !
then you can direct me to him you delivered them for .
tell him not to send any more messengers—unless you feel like coming back to tell me how he took the bad news .
a beautiful woman !
now go to the door and stay there until i call for you .
god bless you .
you’d give the moon a shove if it got stuck five weeks in its orbit .
pregnancy is a blessing ,  but not as your daughter may get pregnant .
he must’ve heard that phrase describing some great man and now he’s using it on a jester .
i am that merry wanderer of the night .
well .
here comes your father.
he doesn’t lie like the living.
i hope not ,  madam .
this is the man .
cassio shall take my place.
see ,  it stalks away !
yes ,  i remember .
is this face hero’s ?
write to him from us; send it very, very quickly.
show me ,  show me .
it’s too bad .
now he’ll sit under a  let’s go .
but come at once, because the night is running away, and we are waited for at bassanio's feast.
my husband !
by heaven, i would rather have been his hangman.
yes, yes.
faster ,  eros ,  faster .
how often ,  when men are at the point of death have they been happy ?  !
listen to antony .
the crowd that follows caesar at his heels—senators ,  justices ,  common petitioners—will suffocate a feeble man almost to death .
let the egyptians and phoenicians go swimming .
here come two of duke senior’s pages .
that’s exactly what i’ll do ,  my love ,  and i hope you’ll do the same .
you are welcome to elsinore .
if you’d been as wise as you were bold ,  with an old man’s mature judgment ,  you wouldn’t have had to read this scroll .
it was a lovely wedding ,  and we’re doing really well on our trip home .
why do you ask?
yes ,  please tell me .
in emergencies you meet the strangest folks .
so have a seat and talk to her .
it orders me to hand the noble duke of clarence over to you .
your parents are lucky to have such a lovely child .
stay here at your own risk .
who are the actors ?
with his own lightning bolts; i’ve shaken up the sturdy cliffs and uprooted pines and cedars; i’ve opened up graves and awakened the corpses sleeping in them ,  letting them out with my powerful magic .
mass ,  i cannot tell .
my brother is imprisoned because of you ,  i am disgraced ,  and the nobility are held in contempt while those who two days ago weren’t worth a dime have suddenly been promoted .
just give me one more kiss, and i'll climb down.
we are still only youngsters in what we’re doing .
if you interrupt this monster with one more word ,  i’ll beat you like a piece of salted fish .
come here ,  sir andrew .
have you forgotten i’m your mother ?
i wouldn’t have them see you here for the world.
observe her; stand close.
by heaven, i don’t, i don’t, gentlemen.
and if i were king of it ,  you know what i’d do ?
i have used you, filth as you are, with human care, and let you live in my own dwelling, until you tried to rape my daughter.
stop .
go ahead .
no ,  i swear it .
curse your eyes, they have looked me over and divided me: one half of me is yours, the other half is also yours, my own love, i would say; but if my love, then yours, and so everything yours.
joy and fresh days of love accompany your hearts!
go up, go up, and see the great destruction's image!
what ,  man !
how are you doing ,  stephano ?
yeah, while you’re alive, you’ll only draw your neck out of the hangman’s collar.
damn it !
judge, o you gods, how dearly caesar loved him!
but i jabber on a little too wildly, and there i am forgetting my father's lessons.
let’s go .
it is two or three ,  my lord ,  that bring you word macduff is fled to england .
but how ?
go get ready.
he looks like a flattering tax collector!
oh my ,  what’s the news ?
his soul is as dull as night and dark as the underworld .
your request came at a time when the poisonous effects of reveling caused me to be unaware of my own actions .
signior gratiano?
here it is .
portia ,  what are you doing ?
what kind of storm is this that blows so opposed to nature?
damn them then, if ever mortal eyes see them in any bed other than their own!
will you do that for me ,  silvius ?
what's the matter, lieutenant?
here comes one.
sir ,  the person who should sing that song isn’t here .
i won’t argue with her ,  so her beautiful body won’t disarm me . —tonight ,  iago .
then you didn’t see his face ?
pull only his name out of his heart and let him go .
lovely beatrice ,  i thank you for taking the pains to tell me that .
then don’t tell me not to sleep by your side, because in sleeping near you, hermia, i do not lie.
must i give in?
why don’t you have a seat ,  your highness ?
don’t you see that i’m out of breath ?
no more foolish talk .
woe ,  alas !
then tomorrow at dinner ?
you speak more wisely than you know .
o desdemon!
tell me so i can be satisfied .
heaven me send such usage ,  not to pick bad from bad ,  but to change my ways by bad !
good morning ,  father .
why did you leave me alone so unkindly ?
why ,  that man is a total fraud and rascal .
what ,  brutus ?
we know we shall die ,  we know; it’s only time and drawing days out that men live on .
stop, oh!
i can’t do that: i accept his ring most thankfully; and please tell him so; furthermore, please show my youth to old shylock's house.
he was not born to be shameful .
please ,  young man ,  don’t make me angry .
they told me i was everything .
i’m coming ,  i’m coming !
an earnest oath from the king ,  as england was his faithful ally ,  as love between them might flourish like the palm tree ,  as peace should still wear her wheaten garland and stand like a comma between their friendships ,  and many  “ as - es ”  like that of great emotion ,  that ,  on the view and knowledge of these contents ,  without further discussion ,  more or less ,  he should the bearers put to sudden death ,  not even allowing time for confession and penance .
is that possible ?
oh ,  lying woman !
age hasn’t dried up my body or eroded my intelligence so much ,  and luck hasn’t robbed me of so much of my fortune ,  and my bad ways haven’t deprived me of so many friends ,  that they won’t find me ready to seek revenge both physically and mentally ,  with money and friends at my disposal .
demetrius loves her, and he doesn’t love you.
i’ll do it.
now the situation .
who are you ?
no matter.
why are you adored ?
what else is it ?
i'll make you quiet .
i will ,  my lord .
good sir ,  this ring was given me by my wife; and ,  when she put it on ,  she made me vow that i should not sell ,  or give ,  or lose it .
there aren’t three people in all of egypt who could do better .
what beast was it, then, that made you tell me about this plan?
our hour is up .
the tyrant has not taken action against them?
so to be banished from verona is like being banished from the world ,  and being banished from the world is death .
enough ,  enough .
you scoundrel !
a great welcome home !
an old gray hare ,  and an old gray hare ,  is very good meat in lent; but a hare that is gray is too much to be billed when it ages before it used up .
what’s the news abroad ?
he really was tricked horribly .
i am the youngest man by that name ,  because there is no one younger ,  or worse .
come on, one more; two boys and two girls makes up four.
i have known her continue in this way for a quarter of an hour .
take up the bodies.
didn’t i tell you to meet me outside and bring these morons with you ?
oh ,  these fools !
let lightning spit fire !
i owe you a lot, and, like a willful youth, i have lost what i owe you, but if you will please lend me money in the identical way that you lent me the first money, i don’t doubt, as i’ll be more careful, to find both sums, or i’ll bring your second loan back again and just owe you thankfully for the first.
really ,  i’m only pretending to be him .
come ,  come; you'll never meet a more capable man .
i have forgotten that name, and that name's pain.
go on ,  get out of here .
the flighty purpose never is understood unless the deed goes with it .
i would draw as soon as another man ,  if i see occasion in a good quarrel ,  and the law on my side .
you look angry .
if he’s so sad and solemn when he’s young ,  i can only imagine how much he’ll cry as an old man .
or at least that’s what i plan to do before i let you go .
oh ,  cassius ,  if you could only convince brutus to join us— don’t worry .
oh ,  excellent !
she is so free ,  so kind ,  so proper ,  so blessed a disposition ,  she holds it a sin in her goodness not to do more than she is asked .
my letters say there are a hundred and seven ships .
hello ,  cassio !
it’s another such polecat!
i’ll be with you right away .
i don’t deny it .
give me that man that is not passion's slave, and i will wear him in my heart's core, yes, in my heart of heart, as i do you.
is my deserving no better than that?
bring me the fairest creature born in the north, where the sun’s fire hardly thaws the icicles, and let’s make a cut for your love to prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
oh ho !
wouldn’t it make one weep?
she has light by her continually; it is her command .
oh ,  dear god ,  please help him !
what’s the news?
say goodbye to me .
what do you mean ,  lady ?
go be with your love ,  as it was decided at your wedding .
from this moment on i have a higher opinion of you than before .
thanks ,  my good countryman .
they have their exits and their entrances ,  and in his lifetime a man will play many parts ,  his life separated into seven acts .
where ,  my lord ?
none that i know definitely, but i’m very afraid there’s a chance.
or say ,  sweet love ,  what you desire to eat .
i answered that lepidus had become too brutal and abused his position .
but woo her, gentle paris, get her love.
when it is lit, come back and call me here.
the citizens are around ,  and tybalt is dead .
iago has kept his word .
i’m happy to meet you ,  my lady and my wife .
he was the first that ever bore arms.
benedick ,  did you notice signior leonato’s daughter ?
he does ,  because he asked antonius to send word to you that he would be there tomorrow .
indeed ,  this counselor is now most still ,  most secret ,  and most grave ,  who was a foolish gabby rogue in life .
god alive !
we haven’t spoken about the torchbearers yet .
we will speak about this further .
right on time .
dolabella !
the sound of lovers calling each others names through the night is silver - sweet .
whenever he talks about her he can’t stop laughing .
what’s that trumpet for ?
do you have permission to go out and take confession today ?
i beg you ,  don’t let me down .
we used to sit together and sew one flower with our two needles ,  sewing it on one piece of cloth ,  sitting on the same cushion ,  singing one song in the same key ,  as if our hands ,  our sides ,  our voices and our minds were stuck together .
i asked a servant .
follow me.
no ,  my lord ,  it’s been four months .
come on ,  shall we go ?
the good manners of the court look as silly in the country as country behavior is laughable at the court .
we'll have dinner there .
i am sorry for her ,  as i should be ,  since i am both her uncle and her guardian .
is this the cure for my aching bones ?
what a hard blow that was!
let me go in to see the generals .
calm down .
you’d be wiser and look better if you told all this to the doctor, because for me to try to purge him of anger would probably make him more angry.
this is it ,  for now .
cicero one !
and if he advances unopposed ,  my lord ,  let us abandon france .
look for yourself—see the top of the cliff way up there ?
you are their heir and sit on their throne ,  and the blood and courage that glorified them run in your veins .
this stormy night will turn us all into fools and madmen .
i’ll talk with this good man .
what a man ,  young lady .
they certainly do like to butt heads !
now go ,  set up for dinner .
you go down that way towards the capitol; i’ll go this way .
how did we come ashore?
he will not say so.
now ,  truly ,  gratiano ,  you give your wife a cause for grief that is very unkind; if it was given to me ,  i should be angry about it .
just give me one more kiss ,  and i'll climb down .
he’s nearby ,  and pindarus has come to salute you on behalf of his master .
follow his chariot ,  like the greatest disgrace to your whole gender .
you ,  prince ,  are the man who can give me justice .
i swear by the sun that when i leave here ,  it will be as your faithful servant .
would he have stolen away from sleeping hermia?
if there is ,  then heaven help him !
the next day we had our fight at sea ,  and you know what happened after that .
talk makes him crazy .
you should be women, only since you have beards, i can’t say that you are women.
i was wrong to her— do you know how an oyster makes its shell ?
i can’t ask you to make my daughter live—that’s impossible—but i beg you both to tell the people of messina that she was innocent when she died .
you have to tell me .
until then ,  god be with you !
none ,  man: all are idle whores and rogues .
yes ,  as much as you look like yourself .
battered armor ,  be off .
yes ,  in a very gentlemanly way .
but edward is still alive .
that i have ,  lady .
well, sir, we won’t.
but i do think it’s the husband’s fault if we wives cheat on them .
the sweet and bitter fool will appear right away .
why shouldn’t she take my hand ,  father ?
if he’s got a message from the count ,  tell him i’m sick ,  or not home .
stand together solidly, for fear that some friend of caesar's should happen — don’t talk about standing.—publius, good cheer!
now you know why we’re in a hurry .
when all the uproar is over, when the battle has been lost and won.
mark antony ,  take caesar’s body .
what soldiers ,  fool ?
yes, with a twink.
listen, but don’t speak to it.
amen to that .
as for your desire to know what happened between us, control it the best you can.
let a true evaluation of the military situation wait until we have won the battle.
tell ventidius i want to speak with him .
my name ,  dear saint ,  is hateful to me because it is an enemy to you .
what ,  have you dined at home ?
and when you want to go to sleep ,  i’ll be up laughing like a hyena .
what shall i do ?
even though i don’t see it ,  this lady thinks i’m a marvelously good - looking man .
you are welcome ,  sir .
go after her ,  go .
mistress ,  your father requests that you leave your books and come help decorate your sister’s room .
all these are bearable, when weighed against other graces.
i don’t understand you, my lord.
why did he do it?
tell me ,  fluellen: did you just come from the bridge ?
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
well ,  first there was the prince from naples .
we fail!
and so it is ,  truly; and very notably acted .
bring desdemona here .
follow me .
difficult to question ,  but ,  when we ask for something ,  he is most free in his reply .
o gentle son, sprinkle cool patience on the heat and flame of your anger!
what’s going on here ,  general ?
what ,  is trusting a friend such a crime ?
where is he ?
it must be a farmer that hanged himself on the expectation of a large crop.
find a time to speak with don pedro and claudio alone .
we’ll look for new friends and keep the company of strangers .
the spring, the summer, the pregnant autumn, and angry winter change their usual clothes; and the amazed world, now doesn’t know which is which by their apparel.
can you smell out his secret now ?
if you only knew how you appreciate the purpose while you mock it like this!
and ,  when i do marry ,  i swear ,  it will be romeo ,  whom you know i hate ,  rather than paris .
sir ,  have pity; i'll be his guarantee .
thank you ,  sir .
who was it ?
let him mount the pulpit .
what ,  does the news only get worse ? —please ,  bassanio ,  i’m half of you ,  so let me bear half the burden this letter brings you .
heaven wanted rosalind to have these gifts and me to live and die as her slave .
i won’t give up this child for all of fairyland .
scum !
please put up with my weakness .
by heaven, that’s my handkerchief!
as for the food ,  it will be served in covered dishes .
make these men work .
you had too much water ,  poor ophelia ,  and therefore i’ll hold back my tears ,  but it is still our trick ,  nature holds her habits ,  let shame say what it will .
you seem all right now .
some villains in my court must have known about this and let it happen .
our business now is mourning and grief .
then you must speak of one that loved not wisely, but too well; of one not easily jealous, but, being aggravated, confused in the extreme; of one whose hand, like the low judas, threw a pearl away that was richer than all his tribe; of one whose sad eyes, albeit unused to a crying spell, drop tears as fast as the arabian trees drop their medicinal gum.
can’t what ,  my lord ?
let’s do it .
it eats and sleeps and has the same five senses we do .
she’s yours . —come ,  ariel !
has any man seen him at the barber’s ?
indeed he has played on this prologue like a child on a recorder, a sound, but not in order.
these violent delights have violent ends, and in their triumph die, like fire and powder, which, as they kiss, consume each other.
do you know me ,  my lord ?
as great to me ,  as recently; and ,  to make the dear loss tolerable ,  i have much weaker means than you have to comfort you ,  because i have lost my daughter .
you can speak to me .
he poisons him in the garden for his estate.
girls younger than she often marry and become happy mothers .
i have no opinion about him .
if, in your wisdom, you can’t help me, only say that my solution is a wise one, and right now, with this knife, i'll help solve it.
i’d feel sorry for them ,  if i were human .
i should have been a sore one, then.
i shall be saved by my husband; he has made me a christian.
please ,  dear ,  come here .
well ,  if a moist palm isn’t a clear sign of promiscuity ,  then i can’t scratch my own ear .
get busy ,  go !
god pardon sin!
i'll make no more mothers for fish; or fetch in firing wood when asked to ,  or scrape dishes ,  or wash dishes; 'ban 'ban ,  ca—caliban ,  has a new master—get a new man .
don’t you have any respect for anything ?
you don’t know what money can buy .
trust me ,  i am glad about it .
no ,  my friends ,  don’t please fate by giving it your sorrow as well .
that!
then teach your cousin to also be willing to close her eyes ,  my lord .
i ordered that the sleeves be cut out and sewed up again ,  and i’ll prove it in combat even if your little finger is armed with your thimble .
never hamlet .
but what’s your trade ?
march gently ahead to meet him.
is the king awake yet, worthy baron?
come, be a man.
we have  and one of them is the criminal deformed .
when are you getting married ,  madam ?
done what ,  my good lord ?
it’s new to you .
what’s wrong ?
it’s stopped;—and surely ,  it’s for some god of the island .
but his kindness was nobler than even his desire for revenge ,  his natural goodness was stronger than his need to give his brother what he deserved .
what ,  from myself ?
o my brother's child !
my girlfriend has beautiful white hands ,  and great warriors aren’t  ha ,  ha !
yes ,  by mary ,  why was he sent to england ?
he’s shouting at the wind to blow the earth into the sea ,  or make the sea flood the earth—he wants to see the world return to primal chaos .
are you going to let them break me out of jail ?
there's more that depends on this ring than its value .
then this was an island—except for the son that she had here, a freckled pup, born of a witch—not resembling any human shape.
be bright and jovial among your guests tonight.
remind richard of this ,  and he will weep .
he talks nothing but nonsense .
and so do i ,  my lord .
a worthy pioneer!
please ,  if you hate me ,  kill me now while your purpled hands smeared with fresh blood .
nor send you out of the way ?
your lordship is right welcome back to denmark .
this must be some kind of fairyland .
with god as my witness ,  i swear i have wept for yours .
if she and i are happy ,  what’s it to you ?
you are my guests .
let this evil hour stand forever cursed in the calendar!
then do my lips now have the sin they took from yours ?
did i say  " better ?
shall she come in?
cassius, what night this is!
and that’s how you must take your husbands .
i’ve seen you fight and envied your skill .
and so will i.
just then ,  they sailed away from our ship ,  so only i became their prisoner .
how strange that they all got so sleepy !
mr .  antonio !
he is the son and heir of old tiberio .
prepare your troops .
i’d give anything to keep them from seeing you here .
he reads a lot; he’s a great observer, and actually he looks through the deeds of men.
my lord sebastian, the truth you speak lacks some gentleness and proper timing; you rub the wound, when you should bring the band-aid.
the king’s a dear boy with a heart of gold ,  he’s a lively lad ,  a wag ,  born of fine parents ,  good with his fists .
as soon as you kill prospero .
where did she get that light?
it’s a pity ,  what hateful sin it is in me to be ashamed to be my father's child !
bad times ?
i’ve heard that the pyramids build by the ptolemies are splendid .
i think he will stand strong with us .
goodbye .
well ,  then ,  what should we do for fun instead ?
o ,  farewell !
not in a grave to lay one in ,  and take another out .
as gaming ,  my lord .
madam ,  it just so happened that certain players we passed on the way here .
fairies ,  let’s go; i have sworn not to go to his bed or to keep his company .
where are these lads ?
will you go see the order of the winners of the race?
is it known who did this more than bloody deed?
is that enough of an answer ?
you all loved him once,—not without reason.
ding, dong, bell.
i do know ,  when passion burns the blood ,  how the wasteful soul gives the tongue vows to speak .
as i get to leech him ,  i will show some mercy .
where ?
would he were here!
it astounds me that such a weak man could beat the whole world and carry the trophy of victory alone .
his daughters want to kill him .
he’s offered me a lot of affection lately .
i don’t love you, so stop following me.
do you know them ?
sir ,  the laws of ephesus will be on my side ,  and you’ll be embarrassed .
i hate it and want all good men’s love .
come ,  sisters ,  let’s cheer him up and show him our talents .
sweet, don’t scorn her like that.
it remains like this ,  and the remainder like this .
it is said they ate each other.
why ,  that’s just the way to frustrate their plans and defeat their absurd intentions .
o ,  balmy breath ,  that almost persuades justice to break her sword !
did you say cassio ?
do they grow rusty ?
what’s the reason for this horrible shouting ?
hear me out ,  my lord .
please ,  sir ,  have patience .
of so high and full intelligence and imagination!
let this evil hour be marked forever in the calendar as cursed .
i am maimed forever .
come with me .
o you stupid boy !
go to adriana ,  you scoundrel ,  and quickly .
and death ,  not romeo ,  can take my virginity !
it’s as strange as this other thing which i don’t understand .
if wolves had been howling outside your gate at the heart of that storm ,  you would’ve told your doorman to let them in ,  despite all the cruelties you inflict on the world .
here!
o hateful day!
yes ,  it stinks very sweetly .
go away .
no ,  don’t press so close to me; stand a bit away .
may i speak with antonio?
i will do so.
oh ,  father abraham ,  what are these christians ,  whose own hard dealings teach them to suspect the thoughts of others .
the wide world is not ignorant of her worth ,  because the four winds blow in famous men who want to marry her from every coast ,  and her golden curls hang on her head like a golden fleece ,  which makes belmont ,  her home ,  a rich island in a lake ,  and many sailors and heroes come to find her .
passion!
why ,  the rumors are all saying that antonio has a ship of rich cargo wrecked on the narrow seas; i think they call the place the goodwins ,  a very dangerous ,  flat ,  and fatal place ,  where the dead bodies of many tall ships are buried ,  as they say ,  if my gossip reporter is an honest woman of her word .
no ,  you can’t sign a contract like that for me !
my ear must pull it out .
speak ,  if you hear me; speak ,  of all loves !
should i tend your pigs and eat husks with them ?
i’m surprised you enjoy the company of this stupid troublemaker .
here ,  peter quince .
i’ll give the jew my flesh ,  blood ,  bones ,  and everything before you lose one drop of blood for me .
what ,  pindarus !
why ,  no; the day dawned before we parted .
i cannot believe that in her; she is full of very blessed qualities .
what do you mean ,   “ wears the wreath ”  ?
in thunder, lightning, or in rain?
he’s an important person .
you’ll be my wife ,  dearest ,  and i’ll serve you forever .
oh ,  where’s romeo ?
it is my lady; o, it is my love!
please ,  just look over there .
i have a daughter (i have her until she gets married) who’s given me this letter ,  considering it her duty .
i’ll never believe any of these old legends or fairy tales .
i do.
what else ?
will you laugh me asleep ,  because i am exhausted ?
i have no doubt about that ,  since i know there isn’t a man among us who isn’t with me wholeheartedly ,  or a soul left behind who doesn’t wish us success and conquest .
but sir ,  have you married my daughter without my consent ?
nerissa teaches me what to believe: i'll die for it ,  but some woman took the ring .
march to meet him at a dignified pace .
where are lysander and beautiful hermia ?
my master and my lord !
now come along .
though i said my name was benedick ,  i heard this news with claudio’s ears .
what do you think ?
what use is mercy except to confront the face of offense ?
o heavy hour !
what ,  my lord ?
oh pyramus ,  arise ,  speak ,  speak .
i will choose this one and try my chances .
oh ,  teach me your look ,  and with what magic you have stolen demetrius' heart !
hang on a second .
i want you to live ,  since to me ,  death is happiness .
gave me ,  sir ?
my lord ,  he has of late made many offers of his affection to me .
your sword on a woman?
can i know your answer?
it’s going to be fun ,  i promise .
here’s the money you wanted ,  master .
i’m still a virgin .
my lord ?
i’m not a fighter .
why ,  how are you ,  general !
don’t give it away .
tell her .
not because we love words better ,  as you do .
it’s as all - consuming and insatiable as the sea ,  and it can swallow as much as the sea can .
are you the lady of the house ?
perhaps even there ,  where i did find my doubts .
get going .
goblin ,  lead them up and down .
for all the rest ,  they'll take a suggestion as a cat licks up milk: they'll turn the clock to any business that we say is right for the hour .
i shall, my lord.
your mind is tossing on the ocean ,  where your ships ,  with full sails — like gentlemen and rich citizens on the water ,  or as if they were in a procession of the sea— look over the minor merchants ,  that bow to them ,  pay them respect ,  as they fly by them with their woven wings .
when i send for you ,  come out wearing masks .
i could cure you ,  if you just called me rosalind and came by my cottage every day to woo me .
brutus ,  my lord !
my lord, i will use them according to their class.
why should i be afraid of you ?
so will i .
what ,  just because they kissed in private ?
so goodbye until we shall meet again .
i wish i were satisfied!
where is he ?
it’s orlando ,  who triumphed over both the wrestler and you in the same instant .
sadness takes away our color .
octavia weeps at the thought of leaving rome .
if i had written it down on paper, i would tear the word from the page.
when i tried desperately to question them further ,  they vanished into thin air .
i’m going to england .
crown him?— that.
o, wonderful!
how could he be in debt without me knowing it ?
caesar ,  what did my stay in egypt have to do with you ?
it is an honor that i never dreamed about .
now ,  i swear ,  she is a gentile and no jew .
no ,  because we shouldn’t be doing that—stuff .
may your sword be victorious and everything you do succeed .
it’s been this way ever since the first government was organized .
that death is unnatural that kills for loving.
didn’t you just say he was ?
can’t you see i’m eating ?
it does ,  my boy .
i hid myself under the dead dreamer’s covering because i was afraid of the storm .
help ,  help ,  help !
and now ,  good friends ,  as you are friends ,  scholars ,  and soldiers ,  give me one poor request .
he meant he did nothing right for me—which is true ,  unfortunately .
well, go home.
just close up these holes with your finger and thumb, put it in your mouth and blow, and it will yield the most eloquent music.
divine ,  perfect woman ,  give me a chance to prove in detail that i’m innocent of the evils you accuse me of .
forty thousand brothers couldn’t, even with all their quantity of love, make up my sum.
i hope now you aren’t drowned.
is  would your mightiness care to wash his hands ?
and neither will i until i see mine again.
i will hear that play ,  because nothing can ever be wrong when simpleness and duty give it freely .
demand .
search ,  seek ,  and know how this foul murder happened .
they should get to bed early and get plenty of sleep .
instead ,  she puts flowers in the boy’s hair and makes a fuss over him .
absolutely everything .
i won’t bother with it .
good heavens ,  man ,  give them more than that !
fast asleep, i guarantee her.
against some part of poland .
none but that ugly evil of mistrust, which makes me fear the enjoying of my love: there may as well be friendship and life between snow and fire as evil and my love.
terrible .
this is some monster of the island with four legs, who has got, as i take it, malaria.
oh ,  what a villain i am !
murder !
dove - feathered raven !
you fell from the terrifying top of this chalk cliff .
are you lovebirds only starting to pair up now ?
turn your face there, patience, you young and rose-lipped archangel, yes, there, look as grim as hell!
please, if it is, give it to me now, because i am slow in studying my lines.
they are full of pity for caesar .
are you really going to tell me that ?
i’ll play this bout first ,  put it aside a while .
for pity, my child is dead; and, with my child, my joys are buried!
what, not dare to tempt him?
i know i won’t please you .
this bud of love, ripen by summer's breezes, may become a beautiful flower when next we meet.
by and by.
i will ,  sir .
bottom!—oh most courageous day!
banquo and donalbain !
i knew from the first it would be this way .
are you hiding your forehead with a golden crown ,  when ,  if there was any justice in this world ,  it should be branded with the murders you committed—your slaughter of the prince who held that crown ,  and of my sons and my brothers ?
approach, you vicious fates!
so here’s the plan .
who is it ?
why ,  anyone can see what this means .
how have i behaved ,  that he might put the smallest opinion on my least misconduct ?
isn’t there one man left in the world who knows not to take a wife ?
that’s for sure .
now go and get me some booze .
say when.
no ,  the whole day ,  and all night too .
montjoy .
what can you see out on the ocean ?
the point poisoned too !
good - bye ,  my lord .
my brother is in heaven .
my master said it .
that’s a poor example .
wow, she is one of this conspiracy!
but ,  i beg you ,  sir ,  are you really married ?
divinity of hell!
ouch ,  what a comeback !
and you must think people are stupid if you believe they wouldn’t realize all the motives you have for trying to kill me .  ”  oh ,  how monstrously evil !
go ,  girl ,  seek these happy nights to give you happy days .
what ,  is he angry ?
i’ll bring you to him right away .
a daughter ?
scold me a lot, emilia, i was, unhandsome warrior as i am, charging his unkindness with a crime of my soul; but now i find i had falsely testified, and he's falsely accused.
and it’s definitely better to cry because you’re happy than laugh because you’re sad !
that she was unfaithful in marriage?
your light dulls when he is near .
what time is it ?
we must not .
our knocking woke him up .
everything that glitters is not gold, often have you heard that told; many a man has sold his life just to look at my outside: gilded tombs wrap around worms.
but, wait, take this garland for your head.
go ,  get out !
i have a man's mind ,  but a woman's might .
follow me in this joke now until you have worn out your shoe; that, when the single sole of it is worn, the joke may remain, after the wearing, sole singular.
the visitor won’t abandon him like that.
first, marcus brutus, i will shake with you;— next, caius cassius, i take your hand;— now, decius brutus, yours;—now yours, metellus;— yours, cinna;—and, my valiant casca, yours;— though last, not least in love, yours, good trebonius.
now ,  welcome ,  kate . —and let everyone bear witness that here i kiss her as my sovereign queen .
stand up, and say how you came here.
leave me ,  iago .
quiet !
i will speak to this fellow .
what is it ,  biondello ?
you have done well ,  that men must lay their murders on your neck .
is it lunchtime ?
you must be the one who laughs when boys or women tell you their dreams .
play ,  i say !
then patiently listen to my impatience .
and if i could, what should i get for saying so?
where is my mother ?
we used to think so too .
it was just removed from from the heart of—oh ,  she’s dead !
amen!
is there any news about my husband ?
by eight o'clock .
thou hast most kindly hit it .
dead ?
i don’t speak yet of proof.
to put it plainly ,  i’m afraid i’m not quite sane .
tomorrow ,  my lord .
they eat us up hungrily ,  and when they’re full ,  they vomit us up .
bring him home with triumph to his house.
then keep your vow ,  fellow ,  when you meet the man .
hamlet, this pearl is your, here's to your health.
no ,  we’ll all be there to go get him .
you advise me well.
what do you think ,  cassio ?
good madam ,  be patient .
step aside ,  choose whichever of your wisest friends you want ,  and they shall hear and judge between you and me .
this is going even better than i planned .
no, sir, she shall not, although you take her side.
but you would be more honorable if you changed your mind .
fool!
sir toby needs help right away .
mine would ,  sir ,  if i were human .
if my heart’s dear love— well ,  don’t swear .
this used to be contradictory ,  but now the time proves it’s true .
i fear the trust othello puts him in, because at some odd time of his infirmity, he will shake this island.
with this, i leave — that, as i killed my best friend for the good of rome, i have the same dagger for myself, to be used when it shall please my country to need my death.
there’s plenty of time.
it is not words that shake me like this.
very potent, grave, and reverend signiors, my very noble and approved good masters, that i have taken away this old man's daughter, is very true; true, i have married her.
and duncan's horses, a thing most strange and certain, beautiful and swift, the darlings of their race, turned wild in nature, broke their stalls, flew out, rebelling against obeying their masters, as if they would make war with mankind.
don’t you letters to me from the friar?
yes ,  those are the best clothes .
the portrait of a blinking idiot ,  presenting me a piece of paper !
but we haven’t made any preparations .
murellus and flavius have been punished for pulling scarves off statues of caesar .
can he even get angry ?
no, if your wits run the wild-goose chase, i’m done, because you have more of the wild-goose in one of your wits than, i am sure, i have in my whole five.
i remember well where i should be, and here i am.
you don’t know whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
we have kissed away entire kingdoms and provinces .
m ” —malvolio .
live, and be prosperous, and, farewell, good fellow.
my good my lord ,  may i a word with you .
it has caused the downfall of many kings .
banquo and macbeth ,  all hail !
medicine is for the dogs .
no ,  if you struggle with me— just half an hour !
where ?
i said so when first i raised the storm.
so ,  thank god ,  there is no real need for me ,  as i wouldn’t be able to help you much .
what time is it ?
right now ,  my pressing business calls me away .
i will bring you there .
i’m sir rowland’s middle son ,  and i bring you news .
and i had to be away from home!
for it is written in the book of numbers:  “ when the man dies ,  let the inheritance descend unto the daughter .  ”  gracious lord ,  claim what is yours .
light !
seneca cannot be too heavy nor plautus too light.
he has both my power and my influence over octavia .
i will do anything, nerissa, before i’ll be married to a sponge.
why didn’t they destroy us then and there?
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or calendar of gentry, because you shall find in him the continent of what a gentleman is.
send for the count.
i remember, one said there were no mixes in the lines to make the matter spicy, and no matter in the phrase that might accuse the author of putting on airs, but called it an honest effort, as wholesome as it was sweet, and, by very much, more handsome than fine.
what handkerchief?
let him be caesar .
come on, then; down, and swear.
if we should fail?
but i will tell you that i seduced margaret ,  the lady hero’s waiting woman ,  tonight .
where joy celebrates, grief mourns greatly, grief joys, joy griefs, on a very slender event.
oh ,  in this love ,  you love your child so badly ,  that you go mad ,  even though she is in heaven .
peace ,  oh !
love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity speaking the least means most to me.
and thus i let you go and give you to the gods .
around three or four o'clock ,  look for news from the meeting hall .
go with me to bless these two, that they may be prosperous, and honored in their children.
it’ll be my job to talk about how benedick is sick with love for beatrice .
look ,  here he comes .
my reputation ,  my reputation !
bless you, beautiful dame!
are you his friend ?
for a necklace your husband had him make .
every one.
trust me, i fear it has.
goneril ,  you know how much i love you ,  but still i have to say— shush ,  please .
you pulled my sleeve; do you want to speak with me ?
i’m not feeling well ,  and that’s all .
hey, spirit!
yes ,  tell me that ,  and stop my guessing .
all except the sailors jumped in the foaming ocean and abandoned ship ,  then i was all on fire: the king's son ,  ferdinand ,  with hair standing up straight —then like reeds ,  not hair— was the first man that jumped ,  crying  “ hell is empty ,  and all the devils are here .  ”  why ,  that's my spirit !
i am friends with you all, and love you all, on this hope, that you shall give me reasons why and how caesar was dangerous.
did you speak of juliet ?
shall we get started ?
didn’t you speak?
then surrender, you coward, and live to be the center of attention of the times.
i won’t miss a chance to send you my greetings ,  love .
where’s antony now ?
i’ll torture him .
please ,  good mercutio ,  let's go home .
where the devil should he learn our language ?
marcus octavius ,  marcus justeius ,  publicola ,  and caelius will go by sea ,  but we’ll keep the bulk on land .
what’s this ?
what can he say about this ?
that is done ,  sir; they have all stomachs .
the cat with the streaked fur has meowed three times .
it is true ,  very worthy signior; the duke's in council ,  and your noble self ,  i am sure ,  is sent for .
that has made him crazy .
besides ,  he brings his fate with him .
i will ,  madam .
what’s the news ?
romeo ran away when tybalt fell dead .
from now on ,  i’ll never be  “ romeo .  ”  what man are you who ,  wrapped in the cover of night ,  stumbles on my private thoughts ?
they’re out to get me ,  and i won’t stand for it !
well then .
lower, lower!
you’ve stolen both my job and my name !
i charge you ,  go with me .
you’re going to pay for this ,  roderigo .
i’ll be a harsh master to them .
i’ll go call the guards.
he leaps from the ground as if his insides were light as hairs .
how ?
so then ,  you must think that hairy men are honest and simpleminded .
o hamlet ,  what a falling - off there was in our marriage !
this is the door .
why are you chewing on your lower lip like that ?
i hereby declare we will have no more marriage .
if it had not fallen dead flat .
thank you .
if i’m not mistaken ,  that’s portia’s voice .
no ,  it doesn’t mean anything .
i can’t find it .
i love you dearly ,  ariel .
god’s wounds ,  show me what you'll do .
i did kill her .
i have a lot to tell you about them .
there's fennel for you ,  and columbines .
it is certain, then, for cyprus.
in such a night thisbe fearfully tripped over the dew ,  and saw the lion's shadow before the lion itself ,  and ran away dismayed .
let me see one .
that's very true ,  my lord .
i'll drink for you .
how is my wife ?
they are here at court now ,  and i believe they’ve been told to give a performance for him tonight .
no, if you stare, we shall hear more soon.
but ,  if you swear ,  you may prove false .
but now ,  my lord ,  what say you to my request ?
let’s all sink with the king .
not true .
this box was tested in the fire seven times .
she has the stones on her ,  and the ducats .  ”  i know ,  all the boys in venice are following him ,  yelling ,   “ his stones ,  his daughter ,  and his ducats !  ”
in these less dainty times ,  you’re not breaking the laws of sanctuary to seize him .
sir ,  very carefully .
o bloody period !
to race after your departing ships ,  leaving his navy to watch ,  was a shame as great as the resulting loss .
as much to him, otherwise his thanks is too much.
don’t pity me ,  but listen seriously to what i shall disclose to you .
that’s a scary thought !
and when has he ever been known to wash his face ?
keep quiet, keep quiet.
he’s in athens ,  my lord .
shame on you ,  warped hag !
haven’t you got enough love to be patient with me ,  when that sudden mood which my mother gave me makes me forgetful ?
everyone can see that ,  and even blind men can smell the stench of his misery now .
you’re talking in such a crazy way ,  sir .
how are you, my good lady?
i’d never play pranks on you .
good morning ,  caesar .
then you’re a better man than the king .
i never gave him gifts .
show us the way without further delay . —trinculo ,  since the king and all our comrades are drowned ,  we’re the heirs of this place . —here ,  carry my wine bottle . —trinculo ,  my buddy ,  we’ll get that bottle refilled soon enough .
all these swords have a length ?
please ,  let me go from here; i am not well; send the deed after me and i’ll sign it .
why ,  here in denmark .
i swear by the mass ,  before i close my eyes to go to sleep ,  i’ll put in some good fighting ,  or i’ll lie in the ground dead .
yes, my lord, if it pleases you.
you made me study that one; she was from carthage ,  not of tunis .
i’ll run away from you and hide in the bushes ,  and leave you to the mercy of wild animals .
i’ll run from this woman who claims to be my wife as fast as i’d run from a bear .
stand up .
hail to you, baron of glamis!
good food’s not a big deal—everyone can afford that .
i have strange things in my head that need to be figured out ,  which must be done quickly before others look at them closely .
go, philostrate, stir up the young people of athens to start swinging; get the party spirit going; turn sadness back to the funerals — no sadness at our parties.
we are sent from our royal master ,  to give you thanks; only to bring you ,  announced ,  into his sight ,  not just pay you for your brave deeds .
why, for that too.
you’re forgetting yourself when you back me into a corner .
let it all go .
yes ,  a thousand times .
what’s the news with you ?
if the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife is awake ,  tell her there's one cassio begs a little favor of speaking with her .
i’ve acted like such a villain !
you are not as happy as macbeth ,  yet much happier .
oh brave touch!
your mother was a piece of virtue ,  and she said you were my daughter: and your father was duke of milan and his only heir a princess — born no less .
the things men are allowed to do !
and servants of the danish king .
help me into some house ,  benvolio ,  or i shall faint .
i want to take the love i had for my cousin and take it out on the body of the man who killed him .
and in part him ,  but ,  ”  you may say ,   “ not very well .
antony .
only hide yourself, and mark the sneers, the taunts, and outstanding scorns, that dwell in every region of his face, because i will make him tell the story as if it were new, about where, how, how often, how long ago, and when he has had, and is again to have, sex with your wife.
i’ll leave you now .
he'll still be hanged, although every drop of water swears against it and open very wide to fill him up.
i speak to you as a plain soldier .
indeed ,  his mocking spirit has now crawled into a  truly ,  it all adds up to a serious story for benedick .
but god who has the plan of my journey on this sea ,  direct my sail !
he’s a fool ,  a madman ,  and a drowned man .
but shall it be soon?
then go gather your men ,  but leave behind your son ,  george stanley .
don’t take long to speak.
that’s a good thing to put in—it keeps you from getting in trouble with the law .
will you kill him then ?
why do we stop talking, that most may claim we did this?
i'll make my trip around the world in forty minutes .
and will you tear our ancient love apart to join with men in scorning your poor friend ?
so let me be brief here .
why did you leave wife and child in that rawness, those precious motives, those strong knots of love, without leave-taking?
up .
speak the part ,  i beg you ,  as i read it to you ,  lightly on your tongue .
the english power is near ,  led on by malcolm ,  his uncle siward ,  and the good macduff .
farewell, you group of spirits; i have to get going.
damn her !
farewell ,  and thanks .
monster, i smell all horse-piss, at which my nose is highly offended.
she whom i love now has grace for grace and love for love allowed .
tell him so yourself, and see how he will take it from you.
and yet you will teach me to avoid quarrelling?!
i do not know that you are as good a man as myself .
by mary ,  this is miching mallecho ,  it means mischief .
in bed asleep ,  while they do dream about things are true .
this disturbed sky isn’t one to walk in.
this was the noblest roman of them all.
that’s good advice .
what if she is black and witty ?
o romeo, romeo!
how can that be ?
you are my love ,  my love ,  i think .
you look pale and dazed, and put on fear and make yourself wonder, to see the strange behavior of the heavens.
women are lucky ,  then .
so ,  the sun won’t shine today !
macbeth !
please take them off .
i’ll cry my tears for romeo’s banishment when their tears are dry .
so ,  by christ ,  i’ll cut off your head .
i will say it for you.
take that .
and that’s true—he  then i pleaded for you .
please do .
god give him health .
that ,  stirred up by dorset ,  buckingham ,  and morton ,  he’s coming to england to claim the crown .
damn it ,  show me what you’re going to do for her .
then it’s banquo's .
what are you determined to do then?
so give me my nightgown ,  emilia ,  and i’ll say goodnight .
i’m here .
gloucester ,  gloucester ,  i want to speak with the duke of cornwall and his wife .
so what if he loves your hermia ?
tear him ,  tear him !
octavius, lead your battle quietly on, on the left hand of the even field.
and even if they don’t ,  at least hero’s supposed death will stop the rumors of her infidelity .
will you ,  i beg you ,  demand that demi - devil to tell why he has trapped my soul and body like this ?
now you know the reason for the rush .
dry up your tears ,  and stick your rosemary on this fair corpse; and ,  as the custom is ,  in all her best array ,  carry her to church ,  because ,  although foolish nature bids us all to grieve ,  still nature's tears are sanity's happiness .
i beg your pardon .
it wants to be spoken to.
i’ll show you how kind i am .
as soon as the deed is done ,  you will be in my favor and i will promote you .
o woeful, woeful, woeful day!
no ,  but swear it .
emilia, come.
what he just said to me—it’s alright .
my lord, the queen wants to speak with you right now.
kate ,  my wooing is fit for your understanding: i am glad your english isn’t better .
show!
were his wounds on his front side ?
is he losing his mind ?
i may say, thrusting it, because piercing steel and poison darts shall be as welcome to the ears of brutus as the news of this sight.
why ,  how is it now ,  stephano !
i’m involved in your rivalry .
my good lord, be quiet.
your husband .
what a miracle !
what do you think of this plan ?
i am but crazy north-north-west.
let four captains bear hamlet like a soldier to the platform ,  for he was likely ,  had he been king ,  to have proved most royal ,  and ,  for his passage ,  the soldiers' music and the rites of war will speak loudly for him .
i saw him holding the handkerchief !
richard ,  a fiendish spy for hell itself ,  still lives ,  but only long enough to buy souls to send below .
he poisons him in the garden for his estate .
anyway ,  he is what he is .
come in and give some help .
welcome ,  horatio .
go on ,  and see whether brutus is alive or dead ,  and bring us word how everything happened to octavius' tent .
oh ,  but i think of him more highly than i say i do—and i wish he looked worse in other women’s eyes .
bring me an exact report of the number of dead on both sides .
where is he?
if he had been forgotten ,  it would have been a gap in our great feast ,  and unbecoming to us .
you have ,  my lord .
if you have lost him, why, i have lost him too.
now they work for me .
and who is england’s king but an heir of the great york ?
i think i see my cousin's ghost looking for romeo who pierced his body with a sword's point .
good - bye ,  noble agrippa .
not that we love words more than fighting ,  like you do .
being ready is everything.
he’s eager to see your head .
it was yours ,  i swear .
are you afraid to be the same man in reality as the one you wish to be?
she's the worse for all this .
do you like the plot ,  trinculo ?
get going ,  get out of here ,  leave !
then we’ll call this the battle of agincourt ,  fought on the day of crispin crispianus .
thus decoration is only the deceived shore to a most dangerous sea; the beautiful scarf veiling an indian beauty; in a word ,  the seeming truth which skillful times dress in to fool the wisest men .
i shall keep the purpose of this good lesson as watchman to my heart.
telling you where he’s sleeping is like telling you where i’m lying .
antonio, as i heard in genoa,— what, what, what?
and for mark antony ,  don’t think abut him ,  because he can do no more than caesar's arm can do when caesar's head is cut off .
if she’s lying ,  i pray that i never sleep again at night or wake up during the day .
indeed!
come on ,  be a man .
should i strike it with my spear ?
may god bring you sleep !
no ,  no .
but we’ll obey .
if we aren’t relieved in an hour ,  we have to return to our barracks .
how unbelievable !
how am i evil to advise cassio to do exactly what’ll do him good ?
but, sir, take my advice.
but excuse me ,   yes ,  i’m talking about launcelot ,  sir .
and i am another one ,  so weary with disasters ,  so unlucky ,  that i gamble my life on any chance i can get ,  either to make it better or end it .
there’s a feud between the two dukes .
help me !
they steal hearts .
that’s the excuse many men use to save their gifts .
are you content ,  jew ?
if not ,  the fates are on the side of the traitors .
o flesh, flesh, how are you fishified!
i have so much care and pity for you that you could call me friend .
don’t you hear it ring ?
does a madman scare me when he stares at me ?
where the devil can romeo be ?
i wonder why none of you’ve thought about him.
i’ll be waiting ,  a thousand times good night !
the poor people died .
father ,  could i please ask you to tell these people what happened between me and this young man ?
go find those herbs for him ,  before his madness puts his life in danger .
madam !
but i have none .
that’s like hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
no faithful subject ever rejoiced more at the discovery of most dangerous treason than i now rejoice that i was thwarted in a damnable undertaking .
it means being filled with fantasy; with passion and wishes; with adoration ,  loyalty ,  and devotion .
but i bet fortinbras will win the election to the danish crown .
three words, dear romeo, and good night indeed.
where have you been ,  my bravery ?
demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
we are responsible for this .
i held the sword ,  and he ran into it .
still i won’t shed her blood; or scar that skin of hers whiter than snow, and as smooth as the marble that makes monuments.
why, even so.
oh yes ,  i heard them all ,  and more ,  too .
he was a man, take him for all in all, i shall not look upon his like again.
he plans to leave tomorrow .
and since we dream at night ,  time passes quickly then .
it is a very excited flood; i cannot ,  between the sky and the land ,  see a sail .
i know i ought to obey my husband ,  but not now .
you said it right ,  old mole .
i can’t pull a cart or eat dried oats like a horse .
romeo's shall be as rich, lying by his lady's side, poor sacrifices of our hatred!
just now .
well ,  we’ll see your behavior .
then senseless priam ,  seeming to feel this blow ,  flaming at his top stoops to his base ,  and ,  with a hideous crash ,  cuts off prisoner pyrrhus' ear .
to a convent, go.
nothing, messala.
high - day ,  freedom !
continue ,  then ,  and don’t forget to perform all of the rituals .
tell me ,  friar ,  in what part of my body is my name embedded ?
god bless you, sir!
it’s not an insignificant happiness, therefore, to be well situated in regard to financial resources: having more than enough comes at some time or other to old men, but having a sufficient income lasts longer.
you should be women ,  only since you have beards ,  i can’t say that you are women .
there was no story ,  my lord .
so that means she’ll come .
the flags have fallen .
it sure is .
o, look, titinius, look, the enemy flies!
is it lost ?
we have here written to norway, uncle of young fortinbras, who, impotent and bed-rid, knows nothing of his nephew's intentions, to stop his further progress in this plan because the levies, the lists, and full proportions are all made without his knowledge, and we are sending you, good cornelius, and you, voltimand, to take this greeting to old norway, without giving you any further personal power to do business with the king, more than the scope of these detailed items allow.
i'll tell you before you ask me again .
i thought so when i supposed you were in love .
was queen cordelia aggrieved by the letters you delivered ?
at supper !
no .
o ,  damn on them !
he thinks highly of me .
come ,  come ,  you weak ,  ungovernable worms !
that's as much as to say ,  such a case as yours constrains a man to bend his legs .
how shall you hope for mercy ,  giving none ?
i will, sir.
then meet me immediately at the notary's; give him directions for confirming this happy promise to pay ,  and i’ll go and get the dollars right away ,  check on my house ,  left in the care of an unlucky rogue ,  and i’ll be with you soon .
gertrude ,  don’t drink that .
but this place is too cold for hell.
it is here!
buckingham ,  i need to have a word with you .
just give me a torch .
but, othello, speak.
please ,  give me that goblet ,  if you love me .
they have wings .
set a huge mountain between my heart and tongue !
friends ,  go .
keep a little bit of honesty ,  even if you’re afraid .
what’s wrong ?
shylock ,  there's three times your money offered to you .
goodbye ,  helena .
oh, jew!
goodbye.
why ,  so did you .
my lord ,  he just left here .
your dog-like spirit that must have been ruled by a wolf hanged for killing a human, his evil soul falling quickly even from the gallows, and, while you lay in your unholy mother, sent itself into you, because your desires are wolfish, bloody, starved, and hungry.
was that him just now ?
and this is all because of our argument .
is it true that good king edward has died ?
i’ll have to tell the story again every month ,  since you seem to forget it .
the worse that you give me the additional information whose lack of information even kills me .
or should i describe you as the one who killed her brothers and her uncles ?
look, sir, here the lady is coming toward my cell.
i am so much a fool, that if i stayed longer, it would be my disgrace and your discomfort.
i’m sorry you don’t have time . —antonio ,  give this gentleman a reward .
you’re talking about killing ?
yes ,  and this .
or i’m crazy to think it was so ,  hearing him talk of juliet  ?
come on ,  one more; two boys and two girls makes up four .
you got to me first .
o ,  look ,  titinius ,  look ,  the enemy flies !
all i ever did was tell him how hurtful and bad it was .
the count’s messenger ,  cesario .
he looks skinny ,  like a dried herring without its eggs ,  and he hasn’t got his girl .
performing is activity ,  and he is always doing that .
come on .
how did we manage to get ashore ?
and you ,  gratiano ,  are you sincere ?
i want very much to find out .
take  beatrice ,  have you come because i called for you ?
follow him ,  friends .
i don’t think you’ve got much of a reason to love me .
and then i will be in charge of your sorrows ,  and lead you even to death .
i’m here ,  i’ve been destroyed by villains !
do you think it would work ?
am i a coward ?
you know that the night hides my face; otherwise, a maiden’s blush would paint my cheek for what you overheard me say tonight.
yes ,  but not out of fear .
oh ,  they say that dress surpasses all others .
come ,  we'll get some sleep .
that’s true ,  they are .
lucius!—fast asleep?
have a good night .
if ever you were yourself, and these woes yours, you and these woes were all for rosaline.
shame of what ,  lady ?
love is like smoke rising with clouds of sighs; being cleansed ,  a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes; being vexed ,  a sea nourished with lovers' tears .
if there are any ,  speak ,  for it is he whom i’ve offended .
we should speak what we feel ,  not what we ought to say .
your spirit walks abroad ,  and turns our swords into our own guts .
you have quarreled with a man for coughing in the street ,  because he woke up your dog that was asleep in the sun .
i’ve heard that’s not the most nourishing food .
on what compulsion must i?
beautifully ,  sir ,  beautifully !
and ,  o you mortal device ,  whose rude throats pretend to be the immortal jove's dread clamors ,  farewell !
his horse is better than the neapolitan’s and he frowns more than the count palatine .
here's cassio, hurt by villains.
well ,  until that time ,  don’t come near me .
and now, octavius, listen to great things.
i don’t think he wants to be anywhere but where he is .
i need to hear the truth about all this .
what !
didn’t you speak to it ?
let’s go !
give me a living reason why she's unfaithful.
this is no time to play .
well, good night.
hold your position, good fate, for his hanging!
this fellow might have been a great buyer of land in his time, with his statutes, his emblems, his fine art, his double billing, his house seizures?
for this idiotic love is like a great natural fool that runs lolling up and down to hide his toy in a hole .
don’t be silly !
your mistress is a good mount .
it doesn’t matter; don’t let the statues be hung with caesar's trophies .
do you love me?
do so;— and let no man pay for this deed but we who did it.
a better example—come on .
what will i do ,  do you think ?
i’ll leave you now .
go forward .
a good person who does something wrong is only patched up with sin .
it’s not morning yet.
your love’s name is rosalind ?
we’ll answer .
lead the way .
my lord?
how did she get out?
you’re thinking something .
when did i ever do you any harm ?
though the truth of your treachery is as plain as black on white ,  i can scarcely believe it ,  it’s so past understanding .
but don’t kill my sister and her royal sons ,  be satisfied ,  dear god ,  with our blood ,  which is being spilled unjustly ,  as you know .
o single - soled joke ,  only singular for the singleness !
and now they’re both gone .
hear me ,  you wrangling pirates .
within this hour ,  my man shall be with you ,  and bring you a rope ladder; which must be my way to the highest point of my joy in the secret night .
he’s just launcelot .
then may your daughters be cursed with all the horrible fates that await sinners !
they were villains ,  murderers .
there, tyrant, there!
if you behave yourself and join us in our circle dance and moonlight celebrations ,  then you can come with us .
o dear account!
not the one ,  i hope ,  that you got from me .
they were traitors.
you blocks ,  you stones ,  you worse than senseless things !
go now and ask where money can be found, and i will too, and i will not object to borrowing it on my account or in my name.
tell me ,  voltemand ,  what’s the news from the king of norway ?
well ,  you’ve given away all your other rightful titles .
to have a foolish wife .
ha !
not very well ,  but i’ve met him several times .
i won’t say no to you ,  but let it be known that i’m only doing this after a lot of persuasion and to save your life —i hear you were quickly wasting away without me .
and the rarest person that ever came there.
where are you going ?
antipholus ,  you hear how the man pleads with me .
he’s given me a second life ,  and marrying her makes him a second father to me .
so do i ,  my lord; they are entirely welcome .
my dagger ,  little nephew ?
i thought i was—there is no man can tell what.
no drugs or sleeping pills will ever give you the restful sleep that you had last night .
we’ll see ,  won’t we ?
give me my sword .
madam ,  good night .
why are you so pale ?
now ,  charmian !
what will you give us?
i was a fine fool to take it .
my barons and relatives, from this point forward you are earls, the first that scotland ever named to such an honor.
what’s done is done .
she will not put up with loving language nor tolerate loving looks ,  nor does she care if a guy is rich .
romans ,  countrymen ,  and friends !
for brutus' sake, i’m grateful to you.
indeed ,  the french can bet twenty french crowns to one that they’ll beat us ,  they have such an army .
look ,  here she comes .
i don’t know if it is true; but i will take it as a certainty just because of mere suspicion in that way .
if only you had a clearer memory of who you are !
if we do meet again, why, we’ll smile; if not, why, then this parting was the right thing to do.
give me your pardon ,  sir .
oh ,  so what graces ,  then ,  does he have ,  that he has turned a heaven into hell !
where have i been ?
there’s magic in its fabric .
why, how is it now, stephano!
bring him in front of me .
oh ,  she’s so witty and creative !
the wine of life has been poured out ,  and only the dregs remain .
o, tell me, friar, tell me, in what vile part of this anatomy does my name live?
come ,  explain .
i’ll attack you now!
with all my heart.
take away this lout and whip him .
a sword’s too heavy for you to wear .
in this day and age ,  if a man doesn’t erect his own monument before he dies ,  he won’t be remembered past the funeral bell’s ringing and his widow’s crying .
even by the rule of that knowledge by which i blamed cato for his suicide— i don’t know why ,  but i think it’s cowardly and vile to take your own life because of the fear of what might happen— arming myself with the patience to wait for the help of some high powers that govern us here below .
i never knew a woman who loved a man so much .
then young men love with their eyes ,  not with their hearts .
get yourself to a convent.
but to the heart of the matter .
which one of you have done this?
believe what ?
no, only heaven knows.
a jealous spy ,  a jealous spy !
until you get back ,  nerissa and i will live like virgins and widows .
what, still in tears?
i’m no ordinary fairy .
i will follow you.
he, woman; i say your husband.
let’s put our heads together .
i saw mark antony offer him a crown;—yet it wasn’t a crown either, it was one of these large hats;—and, as i told you, he pushed it aside once.
what did i do ?
what’s this !
the clock’s just striking twelve .
truly, and i hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
the man in the moon !
you’re not my friend .
this is all that’s left for me to do ,  but i won’t do it .
o my dear cassio ,  my sweet cassio !
what are you going to do now ?
lack of trust in my success has done this deed .
caesar hanged him for this service .
but i jabber on a little too wildly ,  and there i am forgetting my father's lessons .
find it!
go on ,  go on .
i don’t like the job; but ,  since i am entered already so far into this cause ,  encouraged to it by foolish honesty and love ,  i will go on .
is it so brave a girl?
let’s follow him ,  gertrude .
you have been hotly called for; when, you weren’t found at your lodging, the senate sent about three different requests to search for you.
have some patience ,  please .
to many men this is a caliban, and they are angels to him.
it’s right i should be used this way, very right.
if i told you that ,  what would i get out of it ?
conspiracies ,  fakery ,  betrayal ,  and disorder are all that’s left until we die .
gregory, on my word, we will not be humiliated, like carrying coal.
the young rooster .
we will ,  my lord .
what if this mixture doesn’t work at all ?
i await justice .
madam, how like you this play?
hello ,  sir .
hey ,  hey !
under love's heavy burden ,  i would sink .
i figure that once he’s crippled me ,  i’ll beg by showing off my beatings .
who asked you to call her ?
it’s—but he’s drowned ,  and these guys are devils .
forever, and forever, goodbye, cassius!
i am the greatest, able to do least, yet most suspected, as the time and place cast suspicion on me as guilty of this sad murder; and here i stand, both to accuse and free myself, condemned and myself excused.
i forced to send the ring after him; i was overcome with shame and courtesy; my honor would not let ingratitude so much offend it.
it is .
his sword, which was declining on the milky head of reverend priam, seemed in the air to stick.
the life?
but listen to me ,  signor—
fine .
it’s revolting !
i think they do .
who cannot think how monstrous it was for malcolm and for donalbain to kill their gracious father?
she’ll have to have it .
because you ,  most wicked sir ,  whom to call brother would even infect my mouth ,  i forgive your worst fault ,  all of them ,  and require my dukedom from you ,  which i know you must restore to me by necessity .
but you know ,  sirrah ,  we customarily say that the dead are well .
deal ?
if a christian doesn’t play the rogue and get you ,  i am much deceived .
is this the work of an ambitious man ?
there was a time when i would have been terrified by a shriek in the night ,  and the hair on my skin would have stood up when i heard a ghost story .
so how did it go ,  sir ?
for even now i put myself to your direction ,  and take back my own detraction of myself; here renounce the taints and blames i laid upon myself ,  as strangers to my nature .
beautiful ladies ,  please don’t treat me badly .
but the whole story of the night told over, and all their minds changed all at the same time, shows more witnesses than just images of the mind, and grows to something of great lasting; but, nevertheless, strange and admirable.
don’t laugh at me ,  but i swear i think this lady is my child cordelia .
here ,  sir ,  as foolish as ever .
i beg you ,  walk with me on the way a little; and say if i shall see you later tonight .
since no man has anything of what he leaves, what is it to leave soon?
give me a kiss .
gentlemen ,  let go of him .
soon all my work will be done ,  and you’ll be free .
the outcome was doubtful; men fought like tired swimmers who cling together and wind up choking .
that is the key to long - lasting love .
those who rush stumble and fall .
she’s an excellent ,  sweet woman ,  and there’s no doubt that she is virtuous .
let’s shake on it .
he smiled and said ,   “ the better for us .  ”  he’s right ,  and that’s how it is .
good morning to you .
isn’t he honest?
who’s this coming here?
god forbid that i should prevent sacred devotion !
i would rather listen to my dog bark at a crow than hear a man swear that he loves me .
just tell me what to do ,  and i’ll do it .
you can relax ,  ma'am .
what is the matter?
before i could break up the fight ,  tybalt was killed .
but you’re all wound up about fashion ,  too .
this was a bad beginning of the night.
are you so hot?
if he stays in this country he’ll be found .
hello ,  everyone !
damn it, before he fell down, when he thought the common herd was glad he had refused the crown, he opened his shirt, and offered to cut his throat.
i'll send a friar to mantua quickly, with my letters to romeo.
how is that possible ?
no, not charge interest; not, as you would say, directly charge interest; listen to what jacob did.
let me wrap up your head ,  and it will feel okay in less than an hour .
arms ,  make your last embrace !
juno and ceres are whispering about something serious .
he keeps tearing out his white hair ,  which the blindly raging winds catch up and blow away into nothingness .
this is your job .
i will ,  my lord .
i won’t be afraid of blow flies.
be patient ,  i’m telling you .
o ,  no ,  a lantern ,  slaughtered youth ,  because juliet lies here ,  and her beauty makes this tomb a party room full of light .
and now, good friends, as you are friends, scholars, and soldiers, give me one poor request.
listen!
tell her that the king ,  who has the power to command people ,  asks her .
o caesar ,  read mine first ,  because mine's a suit that touches caesar nearer .
sinful macduff ,  they were all struck for you !
you’re in the charge of an honorable man .
learn from the wise ,  and comprehend: the courtier’s perfume is made from cat discharge—much more disgusting than tar .
her name, that was as fresh as diana's face, is now as grimy and black as my own face.
go release them ,  ariel .
am i a married man or a bachelor ?
or if you haven’t sat as i do now ,  boring your listener with all your lover’s virtues ,  then you haven’t loved .
give us a light there ,  hello !
she has already seen him with those sweet eyes.
now grit your teeth and let your nostrils flare .
who's there ?
tell him i want to speak with him .
the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars ,  as daylight shames a lamp; her eyes in heaven would stream so brightly through the skies that birds would sing and think it was morning .
i’m sure you aren’t launcelot ,  my boy .
although we must appear bloody and cruel now ,  as you can see by our hands and this recent deed; still you can only see our hands and this bleeding business they have done .
i’ll go to ireland .
you and your servant are very funny ,  sir .
am i begged ,  then , to speak and strike ?
it was two o'clock when i left him ,  and now it’s one .
what man has courage to do ,  i have courage to do .
consider then that we come but in scorn .
i am dead ,  horatio .
were you dreaming ,  lucius ,  that you cried out like that ?
but aren’t there some healthy men whom we have to make sick ?
no ?
how can i bring those promises back down to earth ,  unless my husband sends them back down to me by dying and going to heaven ?
i think so too .
it’s a nice hazy feeling ,  so give in to it .
no ,  sir ,  worse off .
i'll go farther away.
they’re speaking to him .
you should pity rather than despise this situation.
good night ,  good brother .
in a way ,  i mean .
o, throw away the worse part of it, and live the purer life with the other half.
what a lying ,  drunken monster .
tonight i’ll throw through his window a few letters in different handwriting—as if they came from several citizens—all testifying to the great respect romans have for brutus ,  and all alluding to caesar’s unseemly ambition .
i’ll recognize him all right ,  i’m sure of it .
amen to that ,  from the bottom of my heart .
they only pretend ,  pretend to poison ,  no offense in the world .
yes ,  and he’ll keep getting funnier till he dies .
why do you ask ?
your cause of sorrow must not be measured by his worth, because then it will have no end.
the duke himself, or any of my brothers of the state, can only feel this wrong as if it were their own; because if such actions may have passage free, bond slaves and pagans shall be our statesmen.
i think i can guess what you’re about to say .
patience awhile ,  good cassio .
eyes ,  do you see ?
men must not walk too late .
cassio doesn’t know you .
sorry ,  i’m all stuffed .
you must not put another scandal on him, that he is open to inconstancy.
your evil spirit, brutus.
you say so?
we’ll have to think about it carefully .
yes ,  in just those words .
i’ll kill myself to save myself from slavery .
what’s the matter ,  husband ?
o ,  carry him out of the air .
oh ,  sir ,  on her nose ,  which is covered with pimples ,  sores ,  and red welts .
may the heavens make our presence and our practices pleasant and helpful to him!
but if i were brutus, and if brutus were antony, there would be an antony to ruffle up your spirits, and put a tongue in every wound of caesar, that would move the stones of rome to rise and rebel.
i want to get to know you as well, good master mustardseed.
good gentlemen ,  when are we getting together ?
he found it then; i never gave it to him .
ok, i’ll do it.
o god ,  i could be put into a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space ,  if it were not that i have bad dreams .
hello ,  brother edmund .
save his majesty!
this is how the candle burned the moth .
what satisfaction can you have tonight ?
so i’ll have nothing to do with that gaudy gold box—it’s like the gold that midas couldn’t eat .
i kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
how can watch them?
oh ,  lucilius !
kind gentlemen, every day i turn the page, your pains are registered where i can read them.
we all expect a nice answer from you ,  jew .
where's romeo's man?
no more !
this is trebonius .
what trade ,  boy ?
sweet marjoram .
if i could welcome the fifth with as good a heart as i can bid the other four goodbye ,  i would be happy of his arrival; if he has the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil ,  i would rather he heard my confession than marry me .
his absence means he’s broken his promise ,  sir .
i think i hear them .
oh!
a noose pardon him !
go back to bed; it isn’t day .
by mary, farewell!
no ,  i said his horse is coming ,  with him on its back .
these evils you repeat upon yourself have banished me from scotland .
everyone swears to these conditions who come to take a chance for my worthless self.
since the youth won’t be reasoned with ,  he’ll have to suffer for his stubbornness .
well ,  in that hit ,  you miss .
she's a very exquisite lady.
see, see, our honored hostess!
my stupid heart ,  which i’m leaving behind here .
we might as well send orders to the whale to come ashore as try to restore order in soldiers carried away with their looting .
and don’t lie .
ok ,  so that’s the way the game goes .
verona's summer does not have such a flower of a man.
you should know that i think you’re a smart man .
many of you own slaves ,  which—like your donkeys and dogs and mules—you use to perform awful jobs just because you bought them .
a worthy fool !
no ,  my good knight .
be there ,  or don’t show your face again .
where are his arguments now ,  his pens ,  his cases ,  his subpoenas ,  and his tricks ?
yes ,  indeed ,  and all the king’s men ,  the duke of milan and his fine son too .
they say they have letters for you.
this is illyria ,  lady .
duke ,  the abbess has wronged me and i seek justice .
i don’t know ,  madam .
what ,  are you going to mock me to my face when i told you not to ?
strange things are about to happen ,  edmund .
pay him six thousand, and destroy the promise to pay; double six thousand, and then treble that, before a friend of this description loses a hair because of bassanio.
then, venom, do your work.
is that called for in the contract ?
i’ll tell you at a better time .
judge ,  o you gods ,  how dearly caesar loved him !
aren’t you lysander?
no, madam; we have selected the necessary things that are useful for our event tomorrow.
but listen ,  charmian .
you are so far ahead that swiftest way of repaying is slow to overtake you.
have you got a soul or sense?
what’s wrong?
will you fight well ?
as for me ,  i’ll leave when i like .
i became his guide ,  i led him and begged for him ,  and kept him from suicide .
i’ll sleep here until morning .
i hate the word peace like i hate hell ,  all montagues ,  and you .
in rome ,  madam .
informed them ”  ?
let me think.
i want to do a little good despite my evil nature .
don’t delay, caesar; read it instantly.
he exposed edgar’s murderous plot ,  and was wounded ,  as you see there ,  when trying to apprehend him .
the time is so out of whack .
this supernatural meeting can’t be bad, only it can’t be good either.
and we mean well, in going to this masquerade; but it’s no great sport to go.
did you hear anything about her in yours ?
the queen is here ,  my lord .
it doesn’t seem so.
they certainly will .
a soothsayer tells you to beware of march 15th .
i don’t like that.
here ,  sir ,  this is a ring she asked me to give you .
no ,  who are you talking about ?
yes, you fear it?
that i can keep your advice ,  and not my own .
i’m off to venice .
yes ,  dear madam .
that’s why i praise myself ,  who—if i do say so myself—is quite praiseworthy .
you have.
i don’t have the position to speak knowingly of her; although i may fear, her will, rebelling against her better judgment, may decide to match you with her countrymen, and happily repent her ways.
o, this is the poison of deep grief, it all springs from her father's death.
if you aren’t immortal ,  watch those around you .
he’s not telling the truth .
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ?
stop your unholy work, vile montague!
a messenger from lord stanley .
here on his manly breast .
an alone thing, as i am now, that is amazed to hear you speak of naples.
no !
a little before twelve ,  i think .
i swear by this hand that i love you .
let me see the count .
i was a fine fool to take it.
you always loved to tell me i couldn’t do anything without being told .
if we were in front of our armies ,  about to fight ,  i would do this .
do we have devils here ?
to alonso .
a dream itself is but a shadow .
i make the laws ,  not you .
i’m just worried that you’ve been cozying up to her ,  and gotten intimate with her .
nor i ,  my lord .
hail !
i trust your virtue as a man.
please ,  don’t be sad ,  and don’t tell me how reluctant you are .
what do you say ?
did we ,  my lord ?
let me be satisfied ,  is it good or bad ?
i believe we must leave the killing out, when all is said and done.
the stupidest man of these dim country - folk who acted pyramus in their rehearsal ,  exited from his scene and entered in a bunch of bushes ,  when i took advantage of him and i fixed donkey's head on his head .
now start the music ,  and sing the solemn hymn .
if a bloody head counts as a hurt ,  then you hurt me .
thus, then, here it is; the valiant paris seeks you for his love.
so be it !
has he asked for me ?
enliven them with yours !
i don’t know .
i can’t put my feelings into verse ,  but please believe i love you best ,  oh ,  best of all .
i don’t believe it .
come on ,  what would you say about me ?
won’t you wait a minute?
but i am very sorry, good horatio, that i forgot myself to laertes, because, by the image of my cause, i can see myself in him.
i dreamed about an emperor called antony .
dance away: don’t delay: all of you meet me by dawn.
jesus, what’s your hurry?
speak ,  speak !
masters ,  you are all welcome .
they plan to spend the night in sardis .
was this beautiful paper, this very excellent book, made to write “whore” on?
if you do that ,  i’ll never respect you again .
i don’t understand—how should i answer that ?
where’s my fool ?
quickly ,  tell me how .
we can all go together .
come now, your promise.
swear .
when did i earn this scorn at your hands?
not yet ,  cousin .
help !
iago .
and wanted to see you with laces crisscrossed over your legs .  ”  crisscrossed ?
but this is a little thing; and it seeks to hide itself all the more, it shows how big it is.
whatever you are ,  thanks for your advice .
yes, every one of them, and every man here respects you, and every one wishes you had that opinion of yourself which every noble roman has for you.
the man who finds the sweetest rose will be pricked by it ,  and by rosalind .
do all men kill the things they don’t love?
to ferdinand] one word more: i order you that you wait on me.
to whom ,  my lord ?
and you say he’s not jealous ?
me neither .
if that’s the way it goes, why does it seem unusual with you?
oh iago !
come here, good volumnius; listen to a few words.
and you shall be satisfied .
were you drunk when you seemed so hopeful before ?
yes, my good lord.
come along with us ,  signor fabian .
tell me ,  othello .
i refuse to accept that .
by all that’s holy ,  here comes katherina !
i’m telling you ,  just watch his face .
did you just give us the finger ,  sir ?
i don’t want you to know ,  dearest sweetheart ,  until you can applaud the deed .
give me the vial .
when truth kills truth ,  oh devilish - holy fight !
stay ,  jaques ,  stay here for a bit .
our wars are over.
but i would kill you by petting you too much .
live a little ,  be comforted a little ,  cheer up a little .
this way ,  my lord .
so listen up ,  princess .
a worthy pioneer !
i am about it; but ,  indeed ,  my imagination comes from my head as bird trap does from cloth ,  it plucks out brains and all .
oh ,  madam ,  my old heart is broken ,  broken .
i’d rather kill myself .
o earth !
it makes us or it ruins us; think on that, and make your resolution very firm.
shall i deny you?
i’m not a miracle ,  sir; but certainly a virgin .
those charms ,  your eyes ,  are erased from my heart; your bed ,  lust - stained ,  shall be spotted with lust's blood .
now the situation.
hands ,  speak for me !
spirit ,  we have to get ready to meet with caliban .
you abused me to my face .
whatever you want—i made it for you .
go around the forest ,  moving faster than the wind ,  and make sure you find helena of athens . —she’s lovesick ,  and her face is pale from all the sighing she’s been doing ,  because sighing is bad for the blood .
well ,  there you go .
i promise you, sir, the cold, white, virgin snow on my heart holds back my passion.
has the storm passed ?
run off ,  go visit fairs and festivals !
i think we know whose fancy handwriting that was .
signor lodovico ?
ate at home ?
isn’t it possible to imagine that the noble ashes of alexander the great could end up plugging a hole in a barrel ?
all this is comforting news .
in genoa?
why ,  bride !
still ,  it stands to reason that he mustn’t betray his fear ,  as it might dishearten his army .
you are a senator.
o ,  help him ,  you sweet heavens !
ruining his meals ,  his enjoyment ,  and his sleep would drive any man or beast mad .
i must tell you everything .
what had he done to make him fly the land ?
so go to your deaths ,  poor miserable wretches ,  the pain of which may merciful god give you the strength to endure .
i hope we have the time some day !
and immediately come yourselves and bring messala with you to us.
i am one, my liege, whom has been so angered by the vile blows and beatings of the world that i am reckless in what i would do to spite the world.
it’s even so true that we let our finger ache and it infects our other healthful members ,  even to the point of pain .
are you done yet ?
arm yourself .
madam ,  i am here .
o day !
condemned villain ,  i arrest you .
in the meantime i’ll tell you all ,  as honestly as i confess my sins to god ,  how i wooed this beautiful lady ,  and how she came to love me .
i will ,  my lord .
be friendly ,  but by no means vulgar .
this is the final discussion i will grant .
seleucus’ ingratitude makes me wild .
don’t you bring me letters from the friar ?
the baron of cawdor lives, a prosperous gentleman; and for me to be king is beyond belief, no more than to be baron of cawdor.
the old guy .
no braver than this ?
you are an honest man .
watch out !
weren’t we both born under taurus ?
i wish i had not lived long enough to see him die .
the violence of either grief or joy destroys their own keeping of them with themselves .
i will not speak with her.
come ,  some music !
it is a massive wheel ,  set at the top of the highest mountain ,  in which its huge spokes ,  ten thousand little things are firmly glued together ,  that ,  when the wheel falls ,  each small piece ,  insignificant event ,  adds to the noisy ruin of the country .
how many wonderful creatures there are here !
now, tybalt, take back again the word “villain” that you just gave me; for mercutio's soul is only a little way above our heads, waiting for yours to keep him company.
call my sister that .
it’s him !
but wait !
i’ll watch the play.
but gentle heavens ,  don’t keep me waiting .
i don’t doubt it, and all these sorrows shall become sweet memories that we can talk about in our future.
and as for what i promised to you ,  i’m as good as my word .
they’ve recorded my crimes ,  and i would rather die than have to retell this shameful story .
down !
i’m going to take it from you now .
good riddance ! —close the curtains and leave . —i hope everyone who looks like him will make the same choice .
as for the rest of the ships ,  i scattered them ,  and they’ve gathered again in the mediterranean ,  sailing sadly home to naples ,  believing that they witnessed the shipwreck and death of their great king .
no master, sir, only a poor man's son; his father, although i say it, is an honest, exceedingly poor man, and, thank god, well enough to live.
why are you looking at me so strangely ?
you are the singer .
still here's a spot.
i can make my handwriting look just like lady olivia’s: she
come on ,  let me wipe your face .
you’re in a good mood tonight ,  my lord .
my thanes and kinsmen ,  i name you all earls ,  the first earls that scotland has ever had .
good madam !
you can’t judge me based on what i do tonight .
that woman who claims i am her husband—i loathe her in my soul .
indeed ,  my lord ,  you made me believe so .
my lord ?
from fife, great king; where the norwegian banners insult the sky and, like a fan, make our people cold.
if i know my own thoughts and desires ,  and i’m not dreaming or crazy—which i’m sure i’m not—then ,  dear uncle ,  i’ve never had so much as a half - formed thought that would have offended you .
tell me, that i may rip the hateful mansion apart.
let’s sit here on the church bench until two and then go off to bed .
or was it a blessing that we did ?
because you have been as one, that in suffering all, that suffers nothing, a man that fortune's feasts and rewards have taken with equal thanks, and blessed are those whose blood and judgment are so well blended that they are not an instrument for fortune's finger to play whatever song she pleases.
if you poison us ,  don’t we die ?
and, for as the first installment of a greater honor, he ordered me, from him, to call you baron of cawdor.
i was always honest with you, and so now, i speak my annoyance over the matter; so be cheerful, because i honestly think you are dammed.
there the pairs of faithful lovers shall be married ,  with theseus ,  all in jollity .
do you win, roman?
instead ,  lend it to me as your enemy .
if you want to watch ,  follow me .
what speech, my lord?
what ,  i ,  my lord ?
get to the point ,  since we already know the truth .
no !
i will grant you he is bloody ,  luxurious ,  avaricious ,  false ,  deceitful ,  sudden ,  malicious ,  smacking of every sin that has a name .
and trust me ,  love ,  in my eyes ,  so do you .
if caesar chose ,  antony would jump at the chance to be his friend .
i’ll watch this play .
are you thinking of buying her ?
as you like this ,  give me the lie again .
i’d rather have a jester to make me happy than experience to make me sad—and to travel for all that trouble ,  no less !
it is better as it is .
you hear nothing ?
demetrius doesn’t think so ,  and that’s all that matters .
do tell .
madam ,  i am not well .
it’s better that you didn’t kill him .
as for hamlet and the foolishness of his attentions, think that it is only a phase and a toy in blood.
what’s that ?
why does he allow this rude fellow to knock him about the head now ,  with a dirty shovel ,  and will not tell him why he’s being hit ?
it is enacted in the laws of venice ,  that ,  if it is proved against an alien that by direct or indirect attempts he seek the life of any citizen ,  the party against whom he schemes shall seize one half his goods; the other half comes to the public treasury of the state; and the offender's life lies at the mercy of the duke only ,  above all others .
what is this ?
i’ve never been taught how to make anything .
my eyes itch; does that predict tears?
did he confess ?
why has all this been put on the table ?
you make me want to agree with the philosopher pythagoras that animal souls are reincarnated in human bodies .
the human mortals want their winter here; blessed hymns and carols are sung every night— the moon that controls the flow of the floods, pale in her anger, washes all the air, but there are still many bad diseases.
he’s very handsome and speaks well ,  but he’s very young .
what is this fuzzy logic ?
oh ,  dear !
what is your pleasure?
i agree— put a mark next to his name too ,  antony .
i’ll take responsibility for it .
they drink danes under the table ,  and it takes them no effort at all to out - drink germans .
where’s my cousin toby ?
what ,  lamb !
how then?
what do you think about him ,  cassio ?
and what a slug hastings is that he hasn’t even arrived to tell us whether they’re coming !
get out, servant; rude fellow, go away!
no ,  boy .
here he comes .
what, with worms and flies?
good lord ,  what a clown you are !
we’ll have the wedding at the church tomorrow .
his name's gonzago .
it’s a lucky sign ,  isn’t it ?
oh fates!
is it possible ?
how will you do for a father?
this might be my lord so - and - so ,  that praised my lord such - and - such's horse when he meant to ask for it ,  might it not ?
it will rain tonight .
if you can shape up ,  you’re welcome to stay in the house .
and do you see how much your foolish wife means to him ?
but i need to remember i’m related to him by blood ,  not behavior .
silence !
regarding the dauphin ,  you can speak to me .
i am sorry to hear this.
and you'll keep it secret?
i have no wife.
me quiet!
is this servant of yours a smart man ?
the ,  shouldn’t i smother in the vault ,  where there is no fresh air ,  and i will die there ,  strangled ,  before my romeo comes ?
what’s that noise ?
goodbye ,  cicero .
places ,  everyone !
she’s the one who’s got to do it .
he’s starving me to death .
you should listen to reason .
i’m not drunk .
i didn’t say anything .
well ,  time will tell .
why ,  worthy baron ,  you weaken your noble strength to think about things in such a crazy way .
my hounds are bred out of the spartan kind, so jawed, so sandy-colored, and their heads are hung with ears that sweep along the ground; crook-kneed and dew-covered like thessaly bulls; slow in pursuit, but matched in their barks like bells, each one under the other.
good madam ,  what's the matter with my lord ?
tell me where you’ve stowed away my money ,  or i swear i’ll break that comical head of yours for goofing when i’m not in the mood .
o worthiest cousin !
it’s better to act virtuously rather than vengefully .
it’s really the only way ,  sir andrew .
he sleeps all day like a cat .
i am commanded home.
he loves them both .
we, hermia, like two artificial gods, have created both one flower with our needles, both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, both warbling of one song, both in one key; as if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds, had been incorporated into one.
was this ambition ?
i need to get away from you .
almost as bad ,  good mother ,  as killing a king and marrying his brother .
to romeo] why the devil did you come between us ?
get out ,  you green ,  diseased dead meat !
but mock me gently ,  dear kate ,  because i love you terribly .
what did you say ?
i’m afraid the people have made caesar their king .
brave son ,  fathered from honorable loins !
you rotten scoundrel!
oh ,  i’d rather have met my fiercest enemy in heaven ,  horatio ,  than have lived through that terrible day !
the wide ocean doesn’t prevent them from coming to see her—they travel across it as if it were a little stream .
i’ll do as you say ,  father .
good, i’ll expect you.
antonio is a good man.
where did you leave him ?
tweaks me by the nose ?
was my father a traitor, mother?
what are you talking about ?
your mother.
we would so ,  and then go swindling .
wife, we were just thinking ourselves blessed that god had given us this only child, but now i see that this one is one too many, and that we are cursed in having her.
if it’s true that you don’t need
yes, sir.
sad hours seem long.
don’t worry ,  i won’t .
fathers, from now on don’t believe you can know your daughters' minds from the way you see them act.
love will give me strength ,  and strength will help me accomplish this plan .
i know him; he wears a lock of hair .
most royal sir ,  fleance escaped .
why ?
what i am ,  truly ,  is your and my poor country's to command ,  where ,  indeed ,  before you came here ,  old siward ,  with ten thousand warlike men already at a point ,  was coming to .
may good luck follow you !
if you had any sense of pity ,  or manners ,  you wouldn’t pretend to fight over me like this .
looking at the guts of an offering, they couldn’t find a heart inside the beast.
let me get her .
he’s flabby and out of breath . —here ,  hamlet ,  take my handkerchief and wipe your forehead .
no ,  no ,  i’m as ugly as a bear ,  since animals that see me run away in terror .
he’s safe ,  antony .
he refuses to admit what everyone else knows .
i’ll go to the right side .
the more i suffer ,  the more spiteful he becomes .
if his face changed as much as his personality has ,  i wouldn’t recognize him .
what do you say ,  hermia ?
the priest is already there .
soldiers ,  sir .
who is that man ?
i am debating about my present monies, and, by the nearest guess, i remember that i cannot instantly raise up the whole sum of three thousand dollars.
i humbly say goodbye .
i love you all the more for not liking it .
oh ,  no .
only i remember now that i am in this earthly world, where to do harm is often praiseworthy, to do good sometime is a dangerous mistake.
your delicacies aren’t worth as much to me as your welcome is .
i have had a most rare vision.
remain calm until midnight ,  and then you’ll see what the trouble is .
by mary, young man, her mother is the lady of the house.
yes ,  sir .
but what are you doing in elsinore?
if he hadn’t ,  we’d all be embarrassed to look at him .
where is this sight ?
what woven country - folk do we have swaggering here ,  so near the cradle of the fairy queen ?
he is a gentleman of a good family ,  and for his ransom ,  he will give you two hundred crowns .
a servant told me the night - watchmen saw horrid sights too ,  but different ones from what we heard and saw .
there’s something going on that’s not what it seems .
the count sent me an excellent pair of perfumed gloves .
for england !
see how she comes from confession with a happy face.
all for your delight we are not here .
why ,  sir ,  his hide is so tanned with his trade that he will keep out water a great while ,  and your water is a sore decayer of your wretched dead body .
my way of life is fallen into the dry ,  withered yellow leaf ,  and the things which should accompany old age ,  honor ,  love ,  obedience ,  troops of friends ,  i think i’ll have ,  but ,  instead of them ,  i’ll have curses ,  not loud ,  only deep ,  mouth - honor ,  breath ,  which the poor heart would gladly deny ,  and dare not .
and long live you to think so!
you wouldn’t have dared to tempt him so .
musicians ,  play us a song . —prince ,  you look sad .
i got drunk!
i’ve had enough of this  “ off with you !  ”  come on ,  let me in !
oh ,  you’re just going to talk about banishment again .
that i won’t stand for .
if it’s bad, why has it given me promise of success, that began with a truth?
was he pale or red ?
directly .
say ,  uncle richard ,  if my brother comes ,  where will i stay till my coronation ?
you will .
that did i, my lord, and i was accounted a good actor.
sir, she is mortal; but, by immortal providence, she's mine.
you lie .
clerk ,  draw up a deed of gift .
tell them to slick down their hair ,  brush their blue coats ,  and make sure their socks match .
she had put a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers all around his hairy face ,  and that same dew ,  which sometimes was accustomed to swell like round and orient pearls on the buds ,  was now within the pretty flowers' eyes ,  like tears that were crying about their own sins .
what ,  are you trying to make me crazy ?
oh, noble judge!
we’re probably a very valuable catch for these guys .
so a snowy dove trooping with crows shows as yonder lady over her fellows shows .
i shall be pinched to death.
damned as you are, you have cast a spell on her; because i'll restore myself to all things of sense, if she wasn’t bound in chains of magic, would a maid so tender, beautiful, and happy, so opposed to marriage that she shunned the wealthy, curled darlings of our country, would she ever have, to merit a public joke, run from her father to the black bosom of a thing such as you, to fear, not to delight in?
you’re right .
what did he do to you ?
i work for as good a man as you do.
wait ,  sweet beatrice .
well then ,  another prologue must say that he is not really a lion .
what's the matter?
well, wednesday is too soon, make it thursday.
alas ,  what ignorant sin have i committed ?
we’ll see you tomorrow .
a  what’s going on ?
i beg you, horatio, tell me one thing.
thirsty sorrow drinks our blood.
tell me ,  do i have your consent to kill them ?
can’t you rest awhile ?
here's loud knocking indeed!
what have we here ?
no ,  it’s true ,  or if it’s not ,  i’m a villain .
let me say  “ amen ”  quickly ,  before the devil comes in and stops my prayer—because here comes the devil ,  disguised as a jew .
why do they run away?
pitiful day ,  she's dead ,  she's dead ,  she's dead !
the brilliant sir topas !
yes ,  my lord ,  if you give us permission .
but maybe you don’t like mine ,  or his ,  or hers either .
no more talk about my father; you’ll be whipped for slander one of these days .
please ,  all of you ,  stand up .
how does she claim to own you ?
never excuse, for when the players are all dead, there’s no one to be blamed.
villains ,  you didn’t do even that much when your vile daggers struck each other as they hacked up caesar’s sides .
edmund ,  where’s your wicked brother ?
no .
you’re not answering my question .
go ahead to the square ,  brutus .
if this dream vision is typical of what this island conjures up ,  then i’ll lose my son twice .
most noble sir ,  stand up .
yes ,  my lord ,  but i can spoil it .
isn’t there a guard around ?
a very clear way ,  but there is no friend who will undertake it .
lucius!—varro!
i don’t value my life at the price of a pin ,  and as for my soul ,  what can it do to that ,  being a thing that is immortal as it is ?
this diamond is a present from him to your wife for her boundless hospitality .
i breathed from my soul the most faithful offerings to your ungrateful altars that any devoted person has ever offered—what more am i supposed to do ?
yes ,  that’s the one .
yes ,  caliban ,  her son .
he took my father grossly ,  full of food ,  with all his sins on his soul ,  as full of bloom as may ,  and how his report stands ,  who knows except heaven ?
let’s hide and listen .
please ,  listen to me .
what were those things ?
it’s his wife ,  lady grey ,  who got him to do this .
if it’s me ,  there’s no time as good as this hour of caesar’s death ,  and no weapon better than your swords ,  covered with the noblest blood in the world .
his shroud is as white as the mountain snow, alas, look here, my lord!
why should i, mother?
pindarus ,  order our commanders to lead their charges a little ways away from this ground .
save his majesty !
they’ve turned me into food for worms .
go ,  go ,  you answer me with wickedness .
would you walk out with me ,  sir ? —oh ,  desdemona— yes ,  my lord ?
who commands them, sir?
no ,  my lord .
you are too hot under the collar .
oh ,  tranio ,  until it happened to me ,  i never would have thought it possible .
i beg you ,  sir ,  have patience .
not yet .  ”  well ,  the time has come .
well ,  you shall see; your eyes shall be your judge ,  the difference of old shylock and bassanio:— what ,  jessica ! —you won’t eat like a glutton ,  as you have done with me;—what ,  jessica ! — and sleep and snore ,  and tear clothes apart— why ,  jessica ,  i say !
make us your agents of revenge ,  so we can praise you when we’re victorious !
we can’t waste time between now and six o'clock .
i will not take it .
but with much forcing to make himself do it .
i’ll stop so you can reply.
tomorrow ,  and then every day after that .
what’s all the noise in here ?
will his billing bill him no more for his purchases ,  and double ones too ,  than the length and breadth of a pair of property liens ?
who goes there ?
i bet she’s fast asleep .
there's something in his soul over which his depression sits like a bird on an egg, and i doubt that egg will hatch and the “bird” will be something dangerous, which to prevent, i have quickly decided to write it down like this.
but goodbye .
all our service ,  if done twice in every point ,  and then done double ,  would be poor and single business to compete with those honors deep and broad that your majesty heaps upon our house .
it’s not lost ,  but what if it were ?
what now, sweet queen!
so you’d better not stay with him ,  antony .
tell me, heavenly rainbow, if you know, if venus the goddess of love or cupid, her son, now wait on the queen?
he’s in his chambers now ,  and he’s extremely upset .
maybe you’ll see some little trinket you want to buy .
gentlemen ,  welcome to elsinore .
i’ve destroyed my reputation ,  a most shameful error .
sir ,  such a life with such a wife is unlikely !
i’ll talk to you again tomorrow .
i wouldn’t change it except to make you think of me ,  my darling queen .
arm myself ?
oh, sweetheart, take what i said in an innocent sense.
pretty too !
ha !
i will never be exhibited as lucky caesar’s prize .
no ,  you have to call me rosalind . —sister ,  you’re coming ?
curse your eyes ,  they have looked me over and divided me: one half of me is yours ,  the other half is also yours ,  my own love ,  i would say; but if my love ,  then yours ,  and so everything yours .
this will keep them from being frightened .
how handsome it is .
a norman, was it?
a man that all his life has founded his good fortunes on your love, shared dangers with you, the handkerchief!
who is that knocking?
is he still alive ,  good uncle ?
i hope you’re not drowned .
the duke will agree with me on that .
a grandmother is loved hardly less than a mother is .
nonsense .
demetrius ,  i’m ready to fight you as promised .
i’m sorry you’re leaving my father like this .
the interest rate will be— well ,  shylock ?
okay.
it’s cinna .
saints do not move ,  though they do grant favors for prayers' sake .
this tyrant ,  whose only name blisters our tongues ,  was once thought honest .
sir paris ,  i will make a desperate offer of my child's love .
i am not treacherous.
come to my woman's breasts ,  and make my milk poisonous ,  you murdering ministers ,  wherever in your blind shadows you wait on human mischief !
he’s here ,  sir ,  but please don’t bother him .
destructive thoughts come quickly to the minds of desperate men !
proceed with your tears.
so the candle went out and now we’re all in the dark .
and the poor old man just wept ,  mixing his tears with the rain .
come on, lazy loafer; come on, you child; i'll whip you with a rod.
he is coming .
o, come in, emilia.
good morning ,  sweet hero .
and those eyes were endowed with sight by claudio ,  the prince ,  and me .
and that’s how she died ?
it’s likely they had some notice from the people, how i had moved them.
come here ,  herald . —let the trumpet sound ! —read this out .
long live the king !
but you’re not quickly motivated to hit .
o villain ,  villain ,  smiling ,  damned villain !
what, mistress!
in the meantime ,  i’ll raise an army that will surpass his .
don’t doubt it ,  cassio ,  that i will have my lord and you as friendly again as you were .
and when he laughs ,  othello will go crazy .
grant their law - abiding request !
be silent.
because it will make you angry ,  and that will get me another beating .
go find the traitor gloucester .
do you intend to sink us?
do you go back dismayed?
goodbye.
o !
all this ?
the stuff you had at the centaur ,  sir .
oh lord ,  they’re fighting !
yes ,  he will ,  and the queen as well .
go in ,  or we’re done for .
tell me your secrets ,  i won’t reveal them .
good sir—
what ,  my love ,  shall i compare your eyes to ?
only i remember now that i am in this earthly world ,  where to do harm is often praiseworthy ,  to do good sometime is a dangerous mistake .
don’t you hear him ?
it is here !
maybe it’ll come again .
i have wept inside, or should have spoken before this.
quiet !
he is taking care of it as we speak .
committed !
but i’ll go in .
maybe i should ask you what right you have to take me ,  but i’ll take you ,  orlando ,  to be my husband .
tell them you know that hero loves me .
who could have restrained himself ,  who loved duncan and had the courage to act on it ?
so ,  in the name of god and all the good that will come of this
your other daughter regan will treat you kindly ,  you’ll see .
no more words .
i must eat my dinner .
pretty ,  cupid - like boys stood on either side of her ,  smiling and cooling her with multicolored fans ,  which seemed to fan the flames in her cheeks even as they cooled them ,  undoing what they did .
quiet ,  who’s coming here ?
your true demonic features are distorting your body .
i'll tear her all to pieces.
no ,  i swear i’m not .
woman ,  stop your frantic curses and false prophesies before we run out of patience and do something bad to you .
hello ,  iago .
how do you like the young german ,  the duke of saxony's nephew ?
what speech ,  my lord ?
they give such comfort as lusty young men feel when spring appears with all the flowers and warmth after a long, cold winter, even such delight among fresh female flower buds shall you this night find at my house; hear all, all see, and like her most whose worth shall be the most.
come, let me wipe your face.
please don’t take my niece the wrong way ,  sir .
who were you following with your sword?
go ,  one of you ,  and call the jew into the court .
we all expect a gentle answer, jew.
ah ,  dear juliet ,  why are you still so beautiful ?
he doesn’t seem to be alive .
show me a mistress that is passing fair ,  what purpose does her beauty serve but as a reminder that i may see some other woman who cannot pass her beauty ?
but let it go . —now ,  litio ,  it’s your turn .
he took aim at a beautiful young virgin who was sitting on a throne in the western part of the world ,  and he shot his arrow of love well enough to have pierced a hundred thousand hearts .
i have none .
that’s the truth ,  sir .
don’t let them know fear .
let us prepare for our wedding . —on that day ,  i’ll take your oath of loyalty ,  my lord of burgundy and all my peers ,  to guarantee my treaty .
then the wrong man is dead ,  and sweet revenge has gone wrong .
no ,  not at all .
it would be smart to offer someone poor and innocent like me as a sacrificial lamb to satisfy an angry god like macbeth .
where are your jokes now ?
quiet!
welcome ,  good robin .
take up my mistress' gown for his master’s use !
and aren’t you a montague ?
what’s the problem ?
what are you saying?
farewell ,  hostess .
aren’t you the guy that scares the maidens of the village; skims cream from milk ,  and sometimes works the churn ,  and ,  bootless ,  makes the breathless housewife churn even harder; and sometimes makes the drink so that it doesn’t have a yeasty foam; misleads wanderers who are out at night ,  laughing at their getting lost ?
renowned duke ,  please join us in the abbey ,  where we will discuss at length all that has happened to us .
which i made of the bark of a tree, with my own hands, since i was cast ashore.
this is great.
i think you’re all either bewildered or stark raving mad .
i took him to be killed with lightning.
he’s standing ready outside the door .
i think it looks like an invitation to excitement .
you have weapons ?
an ugly disease afflicts the new flowers of the spring too often before they have bloomed ,  and in the morning and liquid dew of youth contagious shriveling is the most imminent .
so ,  listen ,  hermia .
meanwhile ,  let’s go to bed and dream about this .
when the forked blue lightning seemed to break open the sky ,  i put myself right where i thought it would hit .
beautiful tyrant !
it’s clear that someone less noble ,  less loyal ,  more bloody - minded than clarence but not a blood relation ,  deserves as bad an end as my brother ,  but he goes free .
let thunder rumble !
give me your hand .
hello there ,  sir !
do it again ,  come on .
order them to escape .
speak .
the ides of march are here.
look—his noble blood is still on it .
pronounce them—it is just as nice to say .
and then return to you and nothing else ?
i’ll be gentle and mild .
no one’s heard from him .
not i ,  my lord ,  by heaven .
if we take away caesar’s support ,  he’ll have to come back down to earth; otherwise ,  he’ll fly too high and keep the rest of us in a state of fear and obedience .
let it go .
look at you getting all riled up !
how infinite in faculties !
don’t be afraid; she shall not harm you, helena.
i won’t trouble you so much as to wake you .
it’ll be to our advantage more than doing us harm .
farewell ,  farewell !
yes .
here is something for your pains .
leave me alone .
it was the very day that young hamlet was born, he that is crazy and sent into england.
as i was standing my watch upon the hill ,  i looked toward birnam ,  and in a minute ,  i thought ,  the wood began to move .
naked in bed together ,  but without doing anything ?
fled to england !
it was merely a joke; i didn’t pay attention to it.
gloucester ,  it’s true that we are in great danger .
only be sorry that you shall lose your friend ,  and he is not sorry that he pays your debt; because if the jew only cuts deep enough ,  i'll pay it instantly with all my heart .
the earth ,  that is ,  nature's mother ,  is nature’s tomb .
then ,  since that’s the story as it stands now ,  i think it best for you to marry the count .
what now, roderigo!
come ,  blade ,  drench my breast with blood .
you say so ?
let’s do that .
well ,  you know he sometimes walks here in the lobby for four hours at a time .
are you rich ?
are you acquainted with the difference of opinion that is the present question before the court?
take it off and throw it away .
affliction is in love of your parts ,  and you are married to calamity .
bow to him ,  fairies ,  and curtsy to him .
as sane as me ?
i wish i knew a reason this wedding should be slowed down.
i should make very fires of my cheeks burn modesty into ashes ,  if i only spoke your deeds .
i will withdraw ,  but this intrusion shall ,  now seeming sweet ,  convert to bitter acid .
a challenge, on my life.
is everyone here ?
never ,  my lord .
o ,  i’m killed !
my good lord ,  how has your honor been for this many a day ?
what do you say, my lord?
by mary ,  i will .
that was no show .
his wife probably did it on purpose because she knows what kind of fits he’s having .
but his investments are uncertain right now .
pindarus shall run far from this country, where no roman shall ever notice him.
and for that purpose ,  i’ll poison my sword .
it was the play in which you wooed the gentlewoman so successfully .
it’s the blessed sun .
you gave us a good false impression last night .
i never knew a florentine more kind and honest.
o brave new world that has such people in it!
what ,  you ignore my kind advice and try to please the devil i’m warning you about ?
pitiful day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
i am a spirit of no simple power— the summer still waits for me and i love you .
what, my love, shall i compare your eyes to?
for standing up for this unpopular king .
i don’t like her name .
i will tell you now, as you know, young fortinbras, not thinking very much of us, or thinking that our late dear brother's death made our country disorganized and no longer powerful, conspiring with this dream of his advantage, has not failed to pester us with messages, asking us to the surrender of those lands lost by his father, within all the rules of law, to our most valiant brother.
ah ,  don’t tear yourself away from me !
well ,  sir ,  my mistress is the sweetest lady .
i’m not .
don’t let us talk you into anything ,  but consider carefully the value of our offers .
let their beds be made as soft as yours ,  and let their palates be seasoned with such rich meats ?
it wouldn’t surprise me ,  my lord .
go ,  take your sweetheart and leave him to me .
you get my point ,  don’t you ?
i hate the moor; and it is widely thought that he has done my job between my sheets.
my back aches too—
the egyptian snake is born when the sun shines on the nile mud ,  just like the crocodile .
put on your nightgown ,  in case someone comes and sees that we’re awake .
i fear his looks ,  and i doubt his reasons .
oh ,  why do you reject him that loves you so ?
what a silly monster ,  to think a poor drunk is wonderful .
my own flesh and blood rebels against me !
he is not the flower of courtesy, but i'll guarantee that he is as gentle as a lamb.
why ,  there you’ve said it .
god save you, worthy general!
look at this man .
there will be a feast from five o'clock until eleven .
but ,  sir— why should you do this ,  you want to know ?
her father loved me and used to invite me to his house often ,  continually asking me about my life and all the battles i’ve fought .
yes, i will; and i'll be wise hereafter, and seek for grace.
good evening ,  fair gentlewoman .
my lord ,  that dirty clown whom you laughed at so often is also missing .
run after that obnoxious messenger ,  the duke’s servant .
look how pale he glares !
why, man, i saw bassanio sailing away; gratiano has gone along with him; and i am sure lorenzo is not on their ship.
not i .
while we’re talking here ,  a royal battle could be won and lost .
your songs ?
well, well, you have a careful father, child; one who, to put you past all this grief, has sorted out a surprise happy day that you hadn’t expected, and i hadn’t looked for.
so now sweno ,  the norwegian king ,  wants a treaty .
the second cock crowed .
all right ,  now i’m starting to lose my cool .
no ,  add a couple more syllables .
wait .
give me that pickax and the crowbar .
here he comes with captain jamy ,  the scots captain .
no ,  not for venice .
and what hope is that, please?
what is do you need ?
i make her angry sometimes by saying that paris is more handsome than you are .
no remedy ,  my lord ,  when walls are so willful to hear without warning .
can he be angry?
he remembers how unkind he was to her ,  how he disowned her and sent her abroad ,  how he gave her rightful inheritance to her two dog - hearted sisters .
how is it now!
no more of these thoughts .
with this there grows, in my most ill-composed affection, such a unbendable greed, that, if i were king, i should seize the nobles’ lands, desire their jewels, and their houses, and my wanting to have more would be as a sauce to make me hunger more, that i should start unfair quarrels against the good and loyal, destroying them for wealth.
you can do it ,  i say .
may the good lord keep me safe from all women like her !
good morning to all these lovely people .
get her attention and draw her home with music .
i am not long ,  i guarantee ,  for this world .
i'll run from you ,  and hide in the bushes ,  and leave you to the mercy of wild beasts .
me too .
i chose her for my wife when i thought i had no father to ask advice of .
if it isn’t my old friend grumio—and my dear friend petruchio !
the bitter one is the other one—that’s you . lear are you calling me a fool ,  boy ?
i think that’s strange.
why then, you left me,—oh, the gods forbid!— seriously, shall i say?
my children too ?
worthy montano, you were inclined to be civil; the world has marked he gravity and stillness of your youth and your name is great in mouths of wisest respect.
are you hiding in some bush?
we’ve been looking for him everywhere .
there are still some streaks of day in the west.
it’s as complete a work of villainy as any that could be thought up .
but you’re too good a friend for me to wish her on you .
go ,  some of you ,  and bring these gentlemen where hamlet is .
you know it is the feast of the priest lupercus.
titania sleeps there sometimes at night ,  lulled to sleep among the flowers by dances and other delights .
then it’s banquo's.
justice will be rewarded .
do you hear what i’m saying ,  iago ?
i’ll bet you a hundred marks ,  my kate puts her flat on her back .
o, lay me by my mistress' side.
both fencers are bleeding—how do you feel ,  my lord ?
at supper.
i wish i knew a reason this wedding should be slowed down .
oh ,  it’s a disaster ,  a disaster ,  by this hand ,  it’s a disaster .
i want the law ,  the penalty ,  and the fulfillment of my contract .
come over here ,  gentlemen ,  and put your hands on my sword again .
then love me ,  rosalind .
god made him, and so let him pass for a man.
the two of us together will sing like birds in a cage .
yes ,  by god !
and i regret having bragged to the messenger about how my enemies were being butchered at pomfret while i ,  as i said ,  was in good standing with richard .
the four strangers are looking for you ,  madam ,  to say their goodbyes ,  and there is a messenger come from a fifth ,  the prince of morocco ,  who brings word the prince ,  his master ,  will be here tonight .
he’ll wake you up ,  i bet .
i’ve sent for him .
oh ,  i can buy twenty husbands at any market .
here ,  i give you my blessing again .
is this true ?
no, guiltiness will speak even if tongues are out of use.
just a bit of my dry humor ,  sir .
it will give you some protection from this storm .
tell me ,  what does he think of our situation ?
i could really wish manners would invent some other kind of entertainment.
rest, rest, irritated spirit!
we'll not run, monsieur monster.
i may say ,  thrusting it ,  because piercing steel and poison darts shall be as welcome to the ears of brutus as the news of this sight .
like one of two contenders for a prize ,  that thinks he has done well in people's eyes ,  hearing applause and universal shout ,  giddy in spirit ,  still gazing in a doubt whether those peals of praise are his or not; so ,  three times beautiful lady ,  i stand i ,  even like this ,  as doubtful of whether what i see is true ,  until it is confirmed ,  signed ,  and ratified by you .
he rushed away on serious business .
i’ll moan very believably . —name the other actors . —but i’m really in the mood to play a tyrant .
things at the worst will cease ,  or else return to the way they were before .
to answer your question ,  ma'am—yes ,  he was friendly with those knights .
why was that cry?
faint ,  fall down—if you don’t ,  then you’re lying about my eyes being murderers .
come, find the conspirators.
peaseblossom .
boatswain !
but why aren’t you in your shop today ?
when you do find him ,  or alive or dead ,  he’ll be found like brutus ,  like himself .
being a holiday, the beggar's shop is closed.
how is it now!
what sin committed !
yes ,  ”  said my uncle gloucester ,   “ small plants are graceful ,  while ugly weeds grow fast .  ”  and since then ,  i’ve wished i wouldn’t grow so fast ,  because sweet flowers are slow while the weeds grow in a hurry .
aren’t you lysander ?
the law fully authorizes the penalty ,  which you have to pay according to the contract .
i’ll do anything rather than marry a drunk ,  nerissa .
let those who will hear me speak stay .
what’s up, roderigo!
go, go get fire.
are you tyrrel ?
please ,  let me go .
listen !
clerk, draw up a deed of gift.
look, when i vow, i weep; and vows that are born in tears show the whole truth at that moment.
take in the wheeled canons with their deadly gaping mouths trained on the walled city of harfleur .
filthy hags!
listen ,  get going and ,  once and for all ,  stop following me !
what !
done what, my good lord?
how are you, my lord!
i have looked on the world for twenty eight years ,  and since i could distinguish between a benefit and a disadvantage ,  i’ve never found man that knew how to love himself .
who should now pay the price for mercutio’s life ?
can anything be made out of this?
your old age and the prospect of death are making you imagine things .
follow him ,  friends .
but if you have the stomach for it ,  you’ll have all the help from me you need .
what's to be done?
i’ll fight brutally .
because look how cheerfully my mother looks ,  and my father died within these two hours .
good captain blunt ,  tell the earl goodnight from me ,  and tell him that by two in the morning i would like him to visit my tent .
i don’t like fair terms and a villain's mind.
oh god ,  i wish the two of them were alive and living in naples ,  as king and queen !
oh lord ,  who’s that crying ?
beautiful lady ,  excuse me; i come off to the side ,  to give and to receive .
until the day we die ,  my lord .
good - bye .
don’t worry about me.
reputation, reputation, reputation!
who started it this time ?
should we go see the sights in the town ?
if that your love is honorable ,  your intention marriage ,  send me word tomorrow ,  by one that i'll get to come to you ,  where and what time you will marry me ,  and i’ll lay all my fortunes at your feet ,  and follow you ,  my lord ,  throughout the world .
if i only had the means to compete with one of them, i have a mind that predicts such good luck for me that i will undoubtedly be a very lucky one.
what looks like a horse is quick as thought disfigured by the wind ,  made as difficult to distinguish as water poured into water .
o love!
god knows i waited for you in anguish ,  pain ,  and agony when i gave birth to you .
why did i get married?
my father wasn’t a traitor .
you’ll know more about it later .
and his voice is the paramour of sweetness .
i believe we must leave the killing out ,  when all is said and done .
just cry out ,   “ ah me !  ”  just say  “ love ”  and  “ dove .  ”  say just one lovely word to my good friend
these times of sorrow don’t really give me a chance to pursue love .
can you blame him ?
treason !
very gracious duke, listen with a gracious ear to my request, and let me find a contract in your voice to assist my simpleness.
i think i see my cousin tybalt’s ghost .
do you smell something naughty ?
my lord ,  i did ,  but it made me no answer .
one of them is too much like a painting of a man—he never speaks—and the other is too much like a spoiled little boy ,  always chattering .
peace ,  oh !
be quiet and depart .
lysander!
take my advice .
well ,  god is responsible for that ,  not me ,  and he deserves thanks .
parting is such sweet sorrow that i shall say good night until it’s tomorrow.
this sunken - eyed hag was brought here pregnant and left by the sailors .
if he cannot ,  let the tailor mend him .
but i don’t think it’ll hurt him to tell the truth .
i told you before ,  and i’ll tell you again and again: i hate the moor .
we’ll meet you at sea .
now any effort ruins what it attempts .
please, listen to me.
king lear ,  i’ve always honored you as king ,  loved you as my father ,  obeyed you as my master ,  and thanked you in my prayers— i’m furious and ready to snap .
revenges burn in them ,  because their dear causes would excite a dead man to the flowing of blood and the grim alarm .
caesar ,  the clock has struck eight .
did you see how he laughed at his sin?
enough of your magic spells ,  you hateful ,  withered hag .
we don’t intend any harm to you ,  nor to anyone else .
because their business lies outside the home .
yes indeed .
if a jew wrongs a christian, what is his option?
if god will be revenged for this deed ,  he will do it publicly .
what fight was here?
my lord, as i was sewing in my chamber, lord hamlet, with his shirt all unbuttoned, no hat upon his head, his stockings dirty, not pulled up, and fallen down around his ankles, pale as his shirt, his knees knocking together, and with a look so pitiful in its meaning as if he had been freed out of hell to speak of horrors, he comes before me.
my child ,  my only life !
aren’t these woods less perilous than the court ,  with all its jealousies and intrigues ?
now i'll tell you without asking .
what’s his name ?
he was a man ,  take him for all in all ,  i shall not look upon his like again .
ah ,  you’re here ? —come on ,  gentlemen ,  let’s go !
is your news good or bad?
what are you doing?
oh ,  your contemptible lady !
good gentlemen ,  cut him some slack ,  and keep his attentions on these delights .
why rejoice?
oh ,  that devious egyptian spirit !
my dear friends ,  thanks for your patience .
this ,  this all - souls' day ,  is my just desserts .
and when she is peevish and perverse ,  sullen ,  sour ,  and disobedient to his honest wishes ,  what is she but a loathsome ,  warlike rebel and an ungrateful traitor to her loving lord ?
where is he?
so please ,  leave me alone now ,  and let the nurse sit up with you this night; for i am sure you have your hands full in this so sudden business .
don’t go back until i’ve carried the corpse into the marketplace .
i’ll grant you that i’m a woman, but i am, besides, a woman that lord brutus married.
good morning ,  gentlemen .
i can’t speak to her ,  even though she asked me to .
for you ,  our swords have blunt edges ,  too dull to harm you ,  mark antony .
gracious king edward has sent us noble siward and ten thousand soldiers .
listen ,  clitus .
my fears can’t actually make you evil .
there's a daisy .
huntsman ,  look after my hounds .
one of you go call the jew into court here .
when we were boys, who would believe that there were mountaineers covered with dew like bulls, who had throats with pockets of flesh hanging from them?
no ,  he will answer the letter's writer ,  how he dares being dared .
all right ,  friar francis ,  let’s keep this short .
i am the son of marcus cato !
our wars are over .
that’s very likely .
i am baron of cawdor .
i don’t like it .
a diamond gone, cost me two thousand dollars in frankfort!
see these letters are delivered, get the servants’ clothes made, and ask gratiano to come now to my house.
oh excellent!
yes ,  yes ,  and let’s sing in unison ,  like two gypsies riding on a single horse .
he’s bound to octavia .
let’s go .
gave it a judge's clerk !
montano and myself were talking, and there comes a fellow crying out for help, with cassio following him with determined sword, to kill him.
yes ,  every inch a king .
is his army approaching ?
after you harvest ,  you have to sheaf and bind so throw ripe rosalind on the harvest cart .
shame on you, demetrius!
as long as it’s honorable ,  you can be sure that i’ll let you use all my money and do everything i can to help you .
what do you mean ,  my lord ?
tomorrow is the happy day ,  audrey .
othello ?
will you tear impatient answers from my gentle tongue ?
queen margaret saw your sword steaming with his blood .
husband ?
nothing ,  my lord .
you have forgotten ,  and you think it’s a burden when i ask you to walk through the ocean ,  or run on the north wind ,  or do business for me underground when the earth’s frozen solid .
give me a little breathing space ,  my lord ,  a little pause to think .
walk a little before me .
show me .
sirs ,  never mind .
only dig deep for your courage, and we'll not fail.
what !
there’s nothing more .
whose was it ?
o, he dismounts too.
appear before me now quickly— no talking .
both you and the king might have ordered us to execute your command ,  instead of asking us so politely .
you are antonio ,  you are he .
can you keep your heavy eyes open awhile, and play a song or two on your harp?
as of a man faithful and honorable .
he’s a stylish man .
peter !
is this the same moor whom the senate considers so capable ?
our duty to your honor.
the wolves have finished preying for the night ,  and look—the gentle dawn is rising ,  dappling the sleepy eastern sky with spots of light .
you mean an officer ?
iago is very honest .
still fight you and embed your lies back in your hellish heart . —trumpets ,  blow !
come, bring me to where they are.
thank your stars that you’re brutus that speaks this way, or, by the gods, this speech would be your last.
but so what ?
this visitation is only to sharpen your almost dull purpose.
i beg your honors’ mercy ,  heartily . —what is your name ?
if you cut both their throats ,  then you are the absolute best .
in this letter you’ll find details of her illness and other ,  more serious matters that concern you .
i guess this is not a fish ,  but a native who got struck by lightning just now .
not in the stocks ,  fool .
here comes better news .
i never saw cassio’s kisses on her lips .
i will give you the most expensive in venice, and find out where it is by proclamation: only for this ring, please, excuse me.
it’s hell in our house ,  and you helped cheer it up ,  like a funny devil .
this grisly beast, which known by name lion, scared away or rather frightened the trusty thisbe, coming first to the place by night; and as she fled, she dropped her shawl, which vile lion stained with his bloody mouth.
i have a favor to ask .
come here ,  nurse .
please ,  get some excellent music ,  because tomorrow we want to serenade lady hero at her bedroom window .
the town is besieged ,  and the trumpet calls us to the gap ,  and we talk and do nothing ,  by christ .
i have heard that guilty creatures, sitting at a play, have been so struck to the soul by the very cunning of the scene that presently they have confessed their evil deeds, because murder, although it is silent, will speak with its own most miraculous organ, i’ll have these players play something like the murder of my father before my uncle.
to fetch her fan ,  her gloves ,  her mask ,  or anything ?
it’s not the right time to play .
tomorrow night at dinner then ?
they’re friends—ratcliffe and lovell .
but don’t go .
the only profit i seek is a peaceful match .
some startling news has just arrived ,  sir .
please ,  let's have no more fooling about it ,  but give me your blessing; i am launcelot ,  your boy that was ,  your son that is ,  your child that shall be .
they say the owl was a baker's daughter.
i might wake you up in a while to send you on an errand to my brother cassius .
death has sucked the honey from your breath ,  but it has not yet ruined your beauty .
if my doing what you told me to makes you happy ,  then be happy ,  because i did it .
brown ,  madam ,  and she wouldn’t want her forehead to be any lower .
macbeth will never be defeated until birnam wood marches to fight you at dunsinane hill .
i am satisfied .
my lord ,  you know i’m your friend .
the man who killed mercutio ,  which way did he go ?
well there ,  now you’ve said it .
but it was also prophesied that the crown would not go to your descendants ,  and that my sons and grandsons would be kings instead .
that rotten scoundrel !
what are you going to do ?
and mine two hundred .
renounce it ,  sight !
oh !
thus far has our straining author pursued the story with his crude ,  inadequate writing ,  keeping important people penned up in this little room while he mangled history’s full glory with his uneven telling .
that was good planning ,  and you’ll sleep some more .
he was covered with blood from his helmet to his spurs .
here ,
so please ,  old friend ,  give us some good advice .
i have as much of this skill as you ,  but still i couldn’t bear such new like that .
this grave shall have a living monument.
i won’t speak to her .
tybalt, the kinsman to old capulet, has sent a letter to his father's house.
which one of you have done this ?
my husband said that she was unfaithful!
yes ,  that was it .
if that’s true ,  he won’t get it back by crying .
examples, as obvious as dirt, urge me.
what, is that horatio with you?
do you have it with you ?
not that i know of.
my master’s a total jew .
by mary, sir, it’s a sick cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
and he challenged you to a duel ?
your grace shall have it.
the four suitors are looking for you so they can say goodbye ,  madam .
madam ,  good night; i humbly thank your ladyship .
knock ,  sir ?
nice and short and full of good sense—or should i say nonsense ?
it’s the wind .
for various reasons that must remain secret ,  please do this for me .
i beg you ,  do so .
give me my mask.
master young gentleman, please, which is the way to master jew's?
may i speak ,  caesar .
dead!
i was never a thief or a pirate ,  though i admit i was your enemy for good reasons .
you would make a nasty suitor .
my good lord ,  please re - phrase what you’re saying ,  and don’t give me answers so far away from my question .
close ,  soft eyes .
where are you, pindarus?
quiet !
may a plague curse both your families .
no ,  no ,  with god’s help ,  his son will be king .
if this is known, cassius or caesar shall never turn back, because i’ll kill myself.
farewell ,  king .
o, pardon me; it will do me good to walk.
o my lord!
yes ,  you would argue for a score of kingdoms ,  and i would call it fair play .
perhaps you’ve learned from life and not from books .
ah ,  where's my man ?
the man should be inside the lantern .
why ,  no; but sadly tell me who .
then let the rain come down .
what do you think ?
it is the best horse in europe .
the spirits that know the future have told me this:  “ don’t be afraid ,  macbeth .
as killing a king!
i swear ,  she’s a very good - natured lady .
and squabble?
play with me ,  charmian .
the ambassadors are back from norway ,  sir .
demetrius is an admirable man .
this dagger shall forbid it.
yes ,  sir .
tell him i’m sick .
my king ,  they haven’t come back yet .
she's dead ,  pitiful day !
goodbye ,  my lord .
your wild actions resemble the irrational fury of a beast .
now am i dead ,  now am i fled; my soul is in the sky .
did you call me ,  my lord ?
no ,  my lord .
so maybe slander ,  whose whisper covers the entire world as surely as the cannon hits its target and delivers his poisoned shot ,  may miss our name ,  and not amount to anything at all .
yes ,  my lord .
murder !
fight me, coward!
now he’ll sit under a medlar tree, and wish his mistress were that kind of fruit as maids call medlars when they laugh alone.
i don’t know what private grudges they had that made them do it .
you greet my noble partner with current grace and great predictions of having nobility and of the hope to be king, that he seems carried away as well.
if you care about your health ,  you won’t push me any further .
no ,  but beatrice— sweet hero ,  she’s been wronged ,  she’s been slandered ,  she’s been ruined .
the attempt ,  and not the deed ,  confuses us .
these tears are full of grace .
and so will i .
away!
it’s 9 am.
are you blushing ?
my will alone ,  nothing else in the world .
i still insisted on knowing what the matter was ,  but you wouldn’t answer me ,  instead giving me an angry wave of your hand and telling me to leave you alone .
by heaven ,  i saw my handkerchief in his hand .
i’ve served you since childhood ,  but i’ve never done you a better service than telling you to stop .
then fate overrules me, that, as one man keeping his promise, a million fail in keeping theirs, confusing oath on oath.
you might as well do the impossible rather than try to soften his jewish heart .
hear antony; most noble antony!
if this hadn’t been a gentlewoman, she should have been buried without a christian burial.
good night to you both .
even if he were as important a man as the devil—as lucifer or beelzebub himself—he’s required ,  see ,  your grace ,  to keep his vow .
oh ,  sun ,  i will never see another one of your sunrises .
your disloyal uncle—are you paying attention ?
stay inside .
there’s dolabella ,  who was sent from caesar .
with the same accessories .
o blessed, blessed night!
i’ve become an enemy to my own soldiers !
now he urges him to tell it again .
oh ,  now you weep ,  and i sense that you feel pity .
when the talk was about the poisoning ?
there is scorn and disdain in her eyes ,  and those sparkling eyes despise everything they look upon .
reputation is an idle and very false burden, often got without merit and lost without being deserved.
benvolio ,  who began this bloody fight ?
why are you making them work so hard ?
where ?
who ,  hero ?
we are destined to be betrayed when we are born .
o heavy lightness !
i am sorry that you will leave my father like this: our house is hell ,  and you ,  a happy devil ,  robbed it of some taste of boredom .
why, i said nothing.
i’m ready now .
six cents a - day in pyramus ,  or nothing .
before he leaves this part of the forest ,  you’ll change places: you’ll be the one running away ,  and he’ll be in love with you .
have them click their heels together and don’t dare touch a hair of the master’s horse’s tail till they kiss their hands .
then up he rose and put on his clothes, and opened the chamber door, let in the maid that rejected a maid and never left again.
i’ve done a bad thing ,  for which i will blame myself so much that i’ll never be happy again .
no ,  i’m sure of it ,  volumnius .
so long .
to alonso.
why are you hiding that letter ?
widow dido !
i am very glad of it; i'll plague him, i'll torture him; i am glad of it.
oh ,  are you going to leave me so unsatisfied ?
now he’s ready for
you were kneeled to and otherwise begged by all of us; and the fair soul herself considered at which option she should take ,  between reluctance and obedience .
you can play no part but pyramus; for pyramus is a sweet-faced man; a proper man that you shall see on a summer's day; a most lovely gentleman-like man; therefore you must absolutely play pyramus.
go ,  philostrate ,  stir up the young people of athens to start swinging; get the party spirit going; turn sadness back to the funerals — no sadness at our parties .
why did you leave the dining hall?
there is one that can rule naples as well as the man who is sleeping ,  lords that can talk as much and unnecessarily as this gonzalo: i myself could make asses of these lords  .
what soldiers ,  servant ?
she told her, that, while she kept it, it would make her sweet and soften my father entirely to her love; but if she lost it or made a gift of it, my father's eye should see her as hateful, and his spirits should hunt after new loves.
i could even supply the dialogue between you and your lover if you did your little puppet show of love for me .
but where is he?
this is the matter ,  nurse ,  leave us alone a while ,  we must talk in secret .
certainly .
i therefore testify again ,  that he worked on her with some mixtures powerful over the blood ,  or with some dram that produced this effect .
what wound ever healed except bit by bit ?
let me be your servant .
oh ,  you’re so lucky !
but no matter—i’ll get back at him soon enough .
you should always be honest .
now, before god, everyone in our whole city is much bound to this reverend holy friar.
sometimes she rides over a courtier’s lips ,  and he dreams of making money off of someone .
most lamentable day, most woeful day that ever, ever, i have seen!
his neigh is like a monarch’s command .
romeo!
caesar loses supporters wherever he raises money .
is this your idea of success ?
humors !
harry le roy .
god help claudio !
where are all the rest ?
what's your pleasure ?
be wise, and go home.
since the light of my life has gone out ,  i’ll stop here .
why does he speak this to me whom he hates ?
you are welcome, gentlemen!
oh ,  these men ,  these men !
but only hint at this vaguely ,  because ,  as you know ,  my mother’s still alive .
now that noble vessel is so full of grief, that it runs over, even from his eyes.
yes ,  i will; and i'll be wise hereafter ,  and seek for grace .
but come ,  my lord ,  let’s go .
all the conspirators ,  except him ,  did that they did out of jealousy of great caesar; only he ,  in a general - honest thought and common good to all ,  made one of them .
dead you are ,  dead !
now ,  fellow ,  what's there ?
come ,  ariel—i summon you with a thought .
someone else has the same name ,  but he’s a better man .
show him in .
he’s conducting some business with my lady ,  and sooner or later he’ll leave .
lady strachy married her wardrobe manager .
he said that the people weren’t used to being spoken to except by the  what blocks of wood !
but please ,  tell me the worst thing that could happen to me if i refuse to marry demetrius .
silly babbler ,  how you talk !
dreamer ,  speak once in your life ,  if you are a good dreamer .
what is this ?
go ,  some of you ,  whoever you find ,  arrest .
my arm is sore .
she’s talking .
let me at her !  .
you didn’t arrive like caesar’s sister .
what less than the end of the world is the prince's sentence?
i have no desire to go outside ,  yet something leads me there .
i’ll give him equal thanks ,  so we’re even .
don’t worry about how i handle it .
trust me ,  i fear it has .
we thought he was a coward ,  but he fights like a devil .
i won’t break this promise .
you had too much water, poor ophelia, and therefore i’ll hold back my tears, but it is still our trick, nature holds her habits, let shame say what it will.
they swore you did .
they shouted three times.
you would play me ,  you would seem to know my holes to cover ,  you want to pick out the heart of my mystery ,  you would sound me from my lowest note to the my highest note ,  and there is much music ,  excellent voice ,  in this little pipe ,  yet you can’t play it .
this one?
is she really that wonderful ?
why shouldn’t i pursue hermia ?
and i am your rosalind .
why are you making these faces ?
why ,  isn’t this better now than groaning for love ?
good idea .
imagine ,  when we talk of horses ,  that you see them planting their proud hooves in the soft earth .
when i first heard about him ,  he was still a bachelor .
the fit is momentary; in a minute ,  he will again be well .
you and i ,  kate ,  we are the makers of custom ,  and the freedom that goes with our position silences all who would criticize ,  as i will silence you for upholding the prudish custom of your country in refusing me a kiss .
no, that's not your way.
dolabella ,  i will always be in debt to you .
i’m not proud that you have, but i’m thankful that you have.
a very nasty meaning .
get me some ink ,  paper ,  and a candle .
this letter is for you from signor antonio .
what friend?
i’ve gone through the whole forest ,  but i haven’t found any athenian on whose eyes i might pour this flower's juice to stir his love .
my god ,  do you think i’m easier to manipulate than a pipe ?
my master's a very jew.
a soldier ,  and afeard ?
oh ,  i’m sick ,  sick !
he has a father, and yet he's fatherless.
aren’t you a prostitute?
my husband !
his words are like poison to me .
i don’t know how to play it, my lord.
want ?
has it been so long ?
the more’s the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends.
he was happy here ,  listening to a song .
welcome ,  gentlemen !
i agreed and often i cheated her of her tears ,  when i spoke of some distressful event i had suffered in my youth .
come on ,  can i get you two to make up ?
but where is kate ?
promises are only good when you remember them, born of violence but poor truth, which now, like unripe fruit, stays on the tree, but fall without shaking them off when they are ripe.
it’s no time for jokes: sober up .
the news i have to tell your majesty is that buckingham’s army has dispersed from sudden floods and heavy rainfall .
i do: and surely it is a sleepy language ,  and you talk in your sleep .
who is here so vile that he will not love his country ?
no ?
ride to salisbury .
is my father well ?
there are the players .
and pardon me ,  my gentle gratiano ,  because that same scrubbed boy ,  the doctor's clerk ,  instead of this ,  slept with me last night .
are you my daughter ?
o ,  i’m very much afraid that some evil ,  unlucky thing has happened .
fled to england!
are they still followed?
and don’t say all of that yet .
that our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  drenched in the ocean ,  have ,  nevertheless ,  retained their freshness and sheen ,  seeming to be just cleaned rather than stained with salt water .
many thanks ,  signior gremio .
the king is a thing ,  a thing ,  my lord !
can a man do it ?
clarence has arrived—lying ,  cowardly  i’m not surprised it scared you ,  my lord .
isn’t someone waiting for me ,  cinna ?
look ,  here comes our honored hostess !
hi, fair helena!
if this is true, then i should know this secret.
tell me .
is it time ,  my lord constable ?
i beg you ,  hurry .
faith, half asleep.
i see, sir, you are free in making offers; you taught me to beg first, and now i think you teach me how to answer a beggar.
here stands the man, good.
i beg you, sit still.
i’ll pretend to be the housewife for once .
it’s out of fashion to give lengthy explanations like that .
what an eye she has!
i will hide you where you shall have time to speak your heart freely .
i’m not afraid of anyone but him .
o deadly sin !
i have come here to bury caesar ,  not to praise him .
but thinking this way is not the way to choose a husband for me.
it looks to me like it’s burning in the capulet tomb .
no, but he chattered on, and spoke such scurvy and provoking terms against your honor, that, with the little godliness i have, i worked hard to tolerate him.
can a person be forgiven and still keep the fruits of his crime ?
both of you know banquo was your enemy.
you hateful belly ,  you womb of death ,  stuffed full with the dearest morsel of the earth ,  i will force your rotten jaws to open ,  and ,  in spite ,  i'll cram you fuller with more food !
what other bonds than secret romans, that have spoken the word, and will not negotiate without honor?
oh, love!
tears exhibit my voice.
my lord ?
you don’t wish we had more help from england anymore ,  cousin ?
i’m a prince by birth ,  miranda—maybe even a king now; though i wish i weren’t—and normally i wouldn’t put up with carrying these logs any more than i’d let flies breed in my mouth .
and for cassio, let me be his undertaker.
if i’m going to sing along with you ,  i need to know what key you’re singing in .
you insult your face more than the tears did with that comment .
peter ,  wait for me at the gate .
why?
but you must not attract iron ,  because my heart is as true as steel .
when you’ve done all that ,  go to pompey's porch ,  where you shall find us .
that will never be .
oh sisters three ,  come ,  come to me ,  with hands as pale as milk; lay them in gore ,  since you have shore with shears his thread of silk .
your wife ,  fulvia ,  mustered her army first .
why ,  man ?
why should he call her whore ?
arise ,  fair sun ,  and kill the jealous moon ,  who is already sick and pale with grief ,  that you ,  her maid ,  are far more beautiful than she is .
what!
get yourself to a church and have a proper priest ,  who can tell you what marriage is all about ,  marry you .
here's decius brutus ,  he shall tell them so .
let us in so we can tie him up tight and bring him home to recover .
no, then, you are making fun of me.
what, will you wash him from his grave with tears?
i am speechless .
how am i unfaithful ?
into the air; and what seemed solid melted like breath into the wind.
he’s afraid to come in .
are they still followed ?
you are very welcome here .
or shall i think she's enclosed in the walls of this silver one, being worth ten times less than traditional gold?
then, you be happy.
why, i’ll see you at philippi, then.
my good lord ,  will you see the players well taken care of ?
but just be patient until we’ve calmed the masses ,  who are beside themselves with fear .
it is born .
but god forbid he says no to us !
where are your sister and hortensio’s wife ?
how are you, my noble lord?
hurry ,  gentle jew .
don’t i have a reason to be angry ,  you disobedient hags ?
to tell the truth ,  though ,  i think the duke hasn’t lost a single man ,  except for one who will probably be executed for robbing a church ,  one bardolph—i don’t know if your majesty knows the man .
answer me like men .
everyone who can hear has heard about it .
you have to contradict me ,  do you ?
the baron of cawdor lives.
i never knew a woman could love man so .
ay, and wall too.
where are you?
be as you are accustomed to being; see as you are accustomed to seeing.
the king, the king's to blame.
o ,  well done !
look how lush and healthy the grass is !
the temple - haunting martlet ,  this bird of summer ,  approves this place by his loved dwelling places ,  that heaven's breath smells wooingly here .
doesn’t a jew have hands ,  bodily organs ,  a human shape ,  five senses ,  feelings ,  and passions ?
i can tell you ,  but young romeo will be older when you find him than he was when you started looking for him .
then fate overrules me ,  that ,  as one man keeping his promise ,  a million fail in keeping theirs ,  confusing oath on oath .
so they think it’s a good idea for you to watch a play and direct your thoughts toward laughter and merriment—two strong preventive medicines that foster long life .
that’s not what i wish .
i don’t think there’s anywhere i’d rather die than in the king’s company ,  as his cause is just and honorable .
in fact ,  i consider ambition to be so light and airy that it’s only the shadow of a shadow .
robin starveling ,  the tailor ?
if you wish .
yes .
it’s richard who sent us here to slaughter you .
i can’t offer her more than all i have .
there’s plenty of time .
ah sir!
my pleading is out of tune right now; my lord is not my lord; and i wouldn’t know him if he were he in favor as changed in disposition.
i will, and i’ll know her mind early tomorrow; tonight she's shut up with her grief.
you, merchant, have you anything to say?
all ?
she took that ring from me .
we want answers .
but his navy rules the sea .
at this very minute an old black ram is having sex with your little white lamb .
the testament !
yes ,  my good lord .
some men don’t like roast pig ,  others go crazy if they see a cat ,  and others can’t help urinating when they hear bagpipes .
all this suggests that she has a good reason for doing this to you .
where is he ?
good lads ,  how do you both ?
can you work in the earth so fast ?
caesar ?
i’ll fix you ,  i swear .
marvelous sweet music!
o ,  everlasting shame !
write all this
you call yourself my wife ,  yet you don’t call me  “ husband ”  ?
the servants macbeth killed .
o earth!
hello ,  my headstrong daughter !
i'll know his disposition when he knows the right time.
a fourth !
it’ll be to our advantage more than doing us harm.
women grow by men .
nothing that i am ,  not for their own sins ,  only for mine ,  cruel slaughter on their souls .
wait !
brother john bates ,  isn’t that dawn breaking over there ?
and ,  for mine part ,  i didn’t dare laugh for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the bad air .
oh ,  love !
she’s not even fourteen years old .
rather than see that happen, come, fate, into the arena, and fight for me to the death!
sometimes you get a bit too wild ,  and you let your voice get a bit loud and rude .
so please ,  my sweet rose ,  my dear rose ,  be happy .
you’ll get a bigger reward than you ever got delivering a letter before .
that’s why i’m worried about you .
send for the count .
mr .  bassanio ,  listen to me: if i don’t put on a sober habit ,  talk with respect ,  and swear only now and then ,  wear prayer - books in my pocket ,  look demurely ,  no more ,  while grace is saying ,  hood my eyes like this with my hat ,  and sigh ,  and say  “ amen; ”  use all the observances of manners ,  as one well studied in a sad display in order to please his grandmother ,  never trust me anymore .
everything that glitters is not gold ,  often have you heard that told; many a man has sold his life just to look at my outside: gilded tombs wrap around worms .
i know my medicine will work on him .
what does this mean ?
there, gentle hermia, i may marry you; and the sharp athenian law cannot follow us to that place.
so it’s not my business that’s making me sad .
o, beware, my lord, of jealousy; lord, what fools these mortals be!
or did the letters work on his blood ,  and newly create this fault ?
your wit is a very bitter sweetness; it is a most sharp sauce .
his eyes were as green as leeks .
gentlemen ,  my master antonio is at his house ,  and wants to speak with both of you .
ah ha, my mistresses!
and let me kill cassio .
talk to him again ,  and he’ll like you again .
me marry her!
a hearty laugh .
he has a father ,  and yet he's fatherless .
i’ll cross it ,  though it kill me .
i hope those lions stay far away from him .
to his wife) don’t hold me back – let me go !
what did he say ?
what says polonius?
but i must go there ,  against my will: servants must fulfill their masters' wishes .
how low am i ,  you painted maypole ?
it has the mark of
good to see you, iago.
oh ,  say it ,  and mean it !
show me ,  or at least prove it beyond the shadow of a doubt .
ho, guildenstern!
this choice was as foolish as they are .
the noble brutus is on the platform.
and so i have lost a noble father ,  a sister driven into insanity ,  whose worth ,  if praises may go back again ,  stood as a challenger to the most beautiful woman of all time for her perfections .
mustardseed.
won’t the ladies be afraid of the lion ?
he hears me; and i weep because he does: i myself am naples ,  who saw , —and i haven’t stopped crying , —saw the king ,  my father wrecked .
we know what’s appropriate for a watch .
if you call me jephthah ,  my lord ,  i have a daughter that i love passing well .
yes ,  every man forward .
none ,  my lord .
no ,  please don’t hate him—for my sake .
good advice ,  indeed .
those that are in a hurry will make a mighty fire and start it with flimsy straws.
hortensio
but i can’t help laughing to think that the baby stopped crying and said ,   “ yes .  ”  i swear ,  she had a bump on her forehead as big as a rooster’s testicle .
kingly power seems most like god’s power when the king mixes mercy with justice .
but what warmth is there in your affections towards any of these princes that have already come to try?
approach, rich ceres, to entertain her.
i begin to be weary of the sun, and i wish the order the world were now destroyed.
didn’t he just leave ?
yes .
that’s true .
blab my nonsense !
i hope sores cover your tongue for a wish like that !
follow me ,  then .
the mind i think with and the courage i have shall never sag with doubt or shake with fear .
the will !
she has spoken what she should not, i am sure of that.
what man is that with blood all over him ?
a full half hour .
no ,  nothing .
the queen his mother lives almost by his looks ,  and for myself ,  whether it’s my virtue or my plague ,  she's so necessary to my life and soul ,  that ,  as the star moves only in his orbit ,  i couldn’t do anything without her say - so .
more shouting !
good morning ,  neighbor gremio .
alas ,  the day !
in form and moving, how expressive and admirable!
o lord ,  i could stay here all night listening to such good advice .
no, please, don’t let me play a woman; i have a beard starting t o grow.
come on ,  let’s go see the king .
though all things disgustingly filthy would look like grace ,  yet grace must still look that way .
don’t you bring me letters from the friar?
i am their father’s mother .
i'll look at him to like him ,  if ,  just by looking ,  i can like him ,  but i will not go any further than your consent gives my action strength to make it fly .
men that flow backward indeed, most often, run too near to the bottom by their own fear or laziness.
i brought news of juliet's death to my master ,  and then he came from mantua ,  by horse ,  to this same place ,  to this same tomb .
nobody ever set a gem like her in a worse setting than gold .
take your penalty .
no ,  sir .
a big blast of wind shook our fortifications .
pish to you ,  you mangy dog ,  you pointy - eared icelandic mutt .
what ,  ho !
we should hold day with the direct opposite ,  if you would walk in absence of the sun .
come ,  everyone .
o ,  wonder !
your wit is a very bitter sweetness; it is a most sharp sauce.
but this is a little thing; and it seeks to hide itself all the more ,  it shows how big it is .
i hope with all my heart she will !
that great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clothes .
what features ?
greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
o, i see that nose of yours, but not that dog i shall throw it to.
but it doesn’t matter .
the more i hate him ,  the more he follows me around .
where are you ,  proud demetrius ?
your mother's poisoned.
are you familiar with the case currently before the court ?
listen to this .
give me the daggers.
it’s almost morning .
what’s that noise ?
o husband !
stand, oh!
he didn’t say anything ,  he’s reading .
honest ,  my lord ?
it’s good you hunted for yourself ,  sir .
and then what would i do with him ?
but let him come .
let them guard the door.
more strange than true .
you wretched, rash, intruding fool, goodbye!
i’m more anxious watching you fight than you are in the fight itself .
i am true to my intentions; they follow the king's pleasure .
ah ,  good demetrius ,  will you give him to me ?
what time tomorrow should i send someone to you ?
shut the doors after you .
do as i told you .
listen to the noble antony .
but why couldn’t i say  “ amen ”  ?
my lord, i say!
oh ,  excellent young man !
certainly ,  my conscience will allow me to run from this jew my master .
he said ,   “ remember me .  ”  i swore i would .
where is my lord ,  the duke of gloucester ?
you’re making such a fuss .
no ,  let me say some good things about you while i’m in the mood .
my lady's dead !
a fine woman!
there was a time when you’d freely tell me that words were never music to your ear unless i said them ,  that objects never pleased your eye unless i showed them to you ,  that touches never pleased your hands unless they were my touches ,  and that food never tasted sweet to you unless i had prepared it .
i'll swear on that bottle to be your true subject ,  because that liquor is not earthly .
why ,  whose is it ?
royal egypt ,  empress !
why would you celebrate it ?
what other ceremony ?
before i would say i would drown myself for the love of a chicken ,  i would exchange my humanity with a baboon .
don’t move until the signal.
all right .
i’ll have you two hide—and the fool too—right where he’ll find the letter .
iago’s a good man .
would you do such a deed for all the world ?
the field and town are afraid of me .
what are you doing here ?
there you are lucky .
like that .
i’m only trying to keep the peace .
my noble uncle ,  do you know why he acts this way ?
help me .
come here ,  ma'am .
doesn’t “rosemary” and “romeo” begin with the same letter?
oh ,  my ,  it’s my husband .
down ,  prostitute !
come out ,  i order you .
what is the matter, gentlemen?
and i must go to lorenzo and the rest; but we’ll visit you at suppertime.
welcome ,  wanderer .
who ?
if love has touched you ,  love has touched you—end of story .
no ,  not a sad song .
explain ,  boy .
to bait fish with: if it feeds nothing else, it will feed my revenge.
what lady is that, who make the hand of that knight richer?
so ,  so ,  so ,  so !
tybalt, that murderer, which way did he run?
and when he strikes back at you ,  he’ll hit you as sure as you’re standing there .
it is a nipping and an eager air .
if you poison us, don’t we die?
are you trying to start a fight ?
let’s hear him.
you will be boastful!
that's not the tune.
what will you do with it, that you have been so eager for me to steal it?
this story breaks my heart .
go tell your mistress that, when my drink is ready, she should ring the bell.
my god ,  that’s my handkerchief !
until then, sit still, my soul.
words before blows.
there’s still the king of france’s farewell ceremony .
things for the cook, sir; but i don’t know what.
ha!
you didn’t go to sleep ,  then ?
lunatics ,  lovers ,  and poets all are ruled by their overactive imaginations .
where is kind hastings ?
hail!
if you are merciful, open the tomb, lay me with juliet.
his horse is killed ,  so he’s fighting on foot ,  risking his life to search out richmond .
he is close to death ,  but not dead yet .
i’m indebted to you forever .
how often tonight have my old feet stumbled over graves!
if you keep your promise ,  i shall end this strife ,  become a christian and your loving wife .
don’t.
it’s the truth .
when we shall meet at elegance ,  this look of yours will hurl my soul from heaven ,  and devil will scratch at it .
i am out of patience.
exactly how long is that ,  do you think ?
romeo.
and isn’t it to be damned to let this canker of our nature do further evil?
she has sworn not to love; and, in that vow, i am really dead as i stand here alive to tell you about it now.
my lord and brother ,  god save you .
if there are ropes or knives, poison or fire, or suffocating streams, i'll not endure it.
i know how they think ,  and i understand why they’re doing this .
you say so ?
sin from my lips ?
the english power is near, led on by malcolm, his uncle siward, and the good macduff.
run away, i beg you!
who’s that ?
if the world were mine ,  and demetrius mine ,  i would give everything else to you to be changed anyway you want .
is this true ?
i swear ,  before i die i’m going to see you sick with love .
i’ll be right next to you .
but let me hear the letter of your friend.
and all my children?
but did your sister die of love ?
do you bring me a letter from the friar ?
oh ,  cassius ,  brutus gave the orders too soon .
as for lord hamlet, only believe so much about him, that he is young, and he may walk on a higher mountain than may be given you.
have you prayed tonight, desdemona?
why didn’t the jerk come back to me when i called him ?
o ,  you’re pale !
why did you do that ?
cicero is dead ,  by their decree .
isn’t he jealous ?
is she dead ,  then ?
you both are rivals and love hermia; and now both rivals to mock helena.
i will not confess it to you nor to anyone else ,  because there was no one else to witness her speech .
tell the king that i wish to speak with him ,  for a few words .
self - love ,  my liege ,  is not so great a sin as self - neglect .
his word is more miraculous than the magic harp.
your worm is your only emperor for diet .
you only have to close our hands with holy words ,  then love - devouring death can do whatever he dares it is enough that i may call her mine .
you cannot ,  sir ,  take from me anything that i will more willingly part with ,  except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life .
i’ll help you ,  sir toby .
even if he only winks ,  i know what i have to do .
i assure you ,  my good lord ,  i believe my duty is ,  as i believe in my soul ,  both to my god and to my gracious king .
that’s because you are near me ,  and you’re as dazzling as the sun .
yes ,  and a nice one at that .
dear celia—i already look much happier than i feel ,  but you want me to look even happier ?
away!
charmian ,  did i ever love caesar as much as this ?
what’s this ?
finding ourselves sailing too slow, we put up a great fight, and, in the skirmish, i boarded them.
now to my mother .
how is it now ,  lorenzo !
what is it ,  my lord ?
a strange fish .
tut!
what started this?
where do you come from ?
i will hide him, and will answer the death i gave him well.
o romeo, romeo!
o ,  how may i call this a lightening ?
all your parts together didn’t arouse such jealousy in him as did that one, and that, in my regard, is his weak spot.
he’ll run after her .
i’m not talking with you .
what ,  like stuff from a house ?
why are you waiting ?
they were villains ,  murderers .
crown him ? — that .
sir ,  your age and status inspire more respect than your weapons do .
where is the captain, officer in charge?
my lord ,  the mayor of london is here to greet you .
the pox of such antic ,  lisping ,  affecting absurd and irrational people; these new tuners of accents !
listen a little bit more ,  and then i'll bring you to the present situation which is now here ,  without which ,  this story would be most irrelevant .
oh do - de ,  do - de ,  do - de .
hurry up ,  my jewish friend .
i hear someone knocking at the south entry .
he knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo, by my bad voice.
oh ,  that was unbelievably low !
i dare to do all that may become a man; who dares to do more is not a man.
or of a courtier ,  which could say 'good morrow ,  sweet lord !
by god, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good judgment.
the rooster has already crowed twice .
to the first and the last, a hearty welcome.
good ensign, you are welcome.
if we only find the tyrant's forces tonight, let us be beaten if we cannot fight.
no ,  only in the sincerity of love and honest kindness .
i don’t know how to ask you for forgiveness ,  but i have to say something .
but i see you’re troubled .
will damage your reputation with them—and under ordinary circumstances it would be unfortunate to have them see you as an ogre .
well ,  i don’t .
remember me .
this hand is moist, my lady.
congratulations ,  lady: you resemble a most honorable man .
where’s that dog ?
here i’m kneeling to swear that if i ever did anything to destroy his love for me ,  either by thoughts or actions ,  or if i ever took pleasure in anyone else ,  or if i never did love him ,  or don’t love him now—even though he tries to shake me off—
my lord ,  he has courted me with love in honorable fashion .
to none but you ,  only to you .
to find a husband for her sister .
help !
very impressive .
very suspicious .
who's there ?
i don’t like your faults.
now god in heaven bless you !
tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk away?
if someone like me is fit to be king ,  let me know .
yes ,  that’s it .
i’ll cross myself .
listen to me ,  forget about her .
my good lord, tell it.
calling death banishment is like cutting off my head with a golden ax and smiling while i’m being murdered .
this calm submission is dishonorable and vile .
i know it’s the moon .
welcome, my good friends!
where should i have lost that handkerchief ,  emilia ?
heaven and earth !
you suffered a loss like mine ?
that can’t be it, since i still have all those things for which i did the murder, my crown, my own ambition, and my queen.
who will bear the guilt for our great slaughter ?
bravely, my hard worker.
awake ,  dear heart ,  awake !
o my heart ,  your hope ends here !
no way but this ,  killing myself ,  to die on a kiss .
oh wise judge !
fair princess ,  you’ve missed some good sport .
casca will tell us what’s wrong.
signior lodovico ?
may god in heaven bless you .
get out of here ,  you horrible ghost ,  you hallucination .
can you tell me whether one launcelot ,  who lives with him ,  lives with him or not ?
if each grain of sand had a tongue to eulogize ,  my horse would be a topic for them all .
starveling!
they couldn’t ,  they wouldn’t .
aside .
here’s another ,  more potent than the first .
i know her by her walk .
to his wife) don’t hold me back – let me go!
silence !
what's the matter, that you destroy your reputation like this, and waste your reputation for the name of a night-brawler?
my services are at your command .
o sweet mistress, speak!
this would be enough to make my husband suspect me ,  if he wasn’t so free of jealousy .
i have as much of our father in me as you do ,  though i admit you’re closer to him and matter more because you’re older .
if it’s found to be so ,  someone will dearly pay for it .
for the law of writ and the liberty ,  these are the only men .
if you would take the trouble to study the tactics of pompey the great ,  i can tell you that you would find no tittle - tattle or pibble - pabble in pompey’s camp .
are you thinking about me ?
it is unusually cold, my lord, indeed.
even in hell you couldn’t find a devil worse than macbeth .
for my own good, all other problems will have to wait.
who ever saw the heavens threaten like this ?
and then for her to win the moor, if it meant renouncing his own baptism, all seals and symbols of forgiveness, his soul is so chained to her love that she may make, unmake, do whatever she wants, even as her wishes shall play the god with his weak ability to think.
i cannot speak your england .
if not the face of men, the suffering of our souls, the waste of time— if these motives are weak, let’s break it off now, and every man go away to his lazy rest, let high-sighted tyranny range on until each man drops by chance.
but will it be soon ?
we will watch the execution .
what is this spirit that looks like the son of a king and wears a crown on his young head ?
this was the basket .
with whom?
i had all i could do to calm his anger !
you can ride him easily ,  and he responds well when you pull the reins .
have you seen him today .
well ,  ok .
lord, how it looks about!
good night to everyone.
don’t worry about the consequences .
step aside and hide yourself a little while ,  he will recover right away .
will you help me ? —what an ass and a fool ,  a gullible no - good idiot !
has it come to this ?
i don’t know ,  ”  he said ,   “ any house ,  wife ,  or mistress .  ”  my message ,  which was supposed to be delivered with my mouth ,  ended up being carried back home by my shoulders .
do you mean the king ?
never did mockers waste more idle breath .
and i your servant .
who is this maiden with whom you were at play?
i’m indeed, sir, a surgeon to old shoes; when they’re in great danger, i re-cover them.
don’t speak of this again .
this is as rude as it is strange .
now i’ll go see my priest ,  to ask for his help and tell him about my good luck .
she’ll be here soon ,  just like her letter said .
good - bye .
my husband!
come on ,  do you think i can’t recognize you by your excellent wit ?
you don’t speak as you think; it cannot be.
i have of late, but why i don’t know, lost all my joy, given up all habits of exercises, and indeed, i am so depressed that this good frame, the earth, seems to me to be a sterile outpost, this most excellent canopy, the air— look—, this brave sky hanging over us, this majestic roof divided with golden fire, why, it seems to me to be nothing but a dirty and disgusting meeting of vapors.
ratcliffe !
what, ho!
good night to you .
don’t imagine that i’ll ever allow myself to return to rome in chains .
no ,  cassio wasn’t killed .
i wonder why they are here together .
it’s almost night now .
oh, let me kiss this princess hand of pure white, this seal of bliss!
he rode that prologue like a wild horse .
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie ?
here's a change indeed!
your brother’s right - hand man .
feather of lead ,  bright smoke ,  cold fire ,  sick health !
i think he bought his shirt in italy, his hose in france, his hat in germany, and his behavior everywhere.
go ahead ,  if it will not stand .
is it that aggressive ?
to the first and the last ,  a hearty welcome .
i met the youthful lord at lawrence' cell; and gave him what proper love i might, not overstepping the bounds of modesty.
give him this money and these notes ,  reynaldo .
throw your vile guesses into the devil's teeth, from where you got them.
i’ll make oliver find him .
o ,  where is romeo ?
i am very glad that he's so out of hope.
this might be the head of a politician, which this ass now reaches over one that would go around god, might it not?
more ,  more ,  please ,  more .
give him a statue with his ancestors .
where’s peaseblossom ?
why, now, blow wind, swell seas, and swim ships!
is it a custom ?
don’t be afraid of him, caesar; he's not dangerous; he’s a noble roman and has a good disposition.
indeed, that is out of the air.
you wilt not murder me ?
i’ll send tomorrow .
don’t attack by land .
but what did you want ?
a just hatched bird runs away with eggshell on his head.
what are these things we’re looking at ,  my lord antonio ?
are you out of your mind and deaf too ?
i was engaged to both of them .
come ,  gentlemen ,  let’s go in .
i shall be pinched to death .
i’ve noticed it myself .
and whoever is most irritated by my foolishness has to laugh the hardest .
to save her life ,  i’ll say she doesn’t .
his name is romeo ,  and a montague; the only son of your great enemy .
i’ll do that .
i am content.
tell me that i’ll marry three kings before noon and be widowed by all of them .
all except the sailors jumped in the foaming ocean and abandoned ship, then i was all on fire: the king's son, ferdinand, with hair standing up straight —then like reeds, not hair— was the first man that jumped, crying “hell is empty, and all the devils are here.” why, that's my spirit!
i don’t have to give you answers that you like .
they say the owl was a baker's daughter .
a very unhappy one .
father ,  what’s the news ?
pour in the blood of a female pig that has eaten her nine piglets, and throw it into the flame with fat that has dripped from a murderer's gallows.
i carry no hatred ,  holy man ,  because my request will benefit my enemy .
this is the very passion of love whose violent property kills itself ,  and leads the will to desperate undertakings as often as any passion under heaven that afflicts our natures .
god’s wounds, show me what you'll do.
to prison until the right time of law and course of justice call you to answer .
you can’t go back into the house unless you want to fight with me—and if you’re willing to do that ,  you might as well just go and fight with him .
o woeful ,  woeful ,  woeful day !
love news ,  in faith .
i will not trade my horse for any that walks on four legs .
is all of this about your father ?
the ropes that romeo asked you to fetch?
why did you cry out in your sleep ?
they’re well too .
my lord ,  the queen wants to speak with you right now .
where’s antony ?
leave him to my wrath . —edmund ,  go with my sister - in - law .
good morning to you both .
a right good marksman!
well ,  good night .
it’s easy to get desdemona on your side .
but on the prettiest branches or at the end of every sentence  i’ll write  “ rosalinda ,  ”  teaching everyone who can read that the essence of every spirit is contained in this one woman .
my master is the great and rich capulet ,  and if you don’t belong to the house of montague ,  please come and drink a cup of wine .
do something about it ,  then .
are you afraid ?
and i of all ladies most dejected and wretched that has tasted the honey of his musical vows ,  now see that noble and most royal mind ,  like sweet bells jangling ,  out of tune and harsh to hear ,  that form and feature of blown youth without equal totally crazy .
he would have gotten a pension of six pence a day for his whole life .
but a dream itself is just a shadow .
the  right .
he didn’t ask questions ,  but answered ours at length .
take them in .
because she’s been chosen by signior hortensio .
what if this mixture doesn’t work at all ?
well ,  thank god i’m cured !
a plague on both your houses !
as the indifferent children of the earth.
a man of great influence .
prove that the men you call your fathers did truly conceive you .
it’s out already !
if i once get angry ,  and only lift this arm ,  the best of you shall sink in my scolding .
juliet ,  i’ll wake you up early on thursday early .
silence !
give me a hand and help me off with this magic cloak .
oh ,  oh ,  oh !
i beg you, lead on.
alexander ,  god knows and you know ,  in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his angers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations ,  and also being a little the worse for drink ,  killed his best friend cleitus in a drunken rage ,  see .
there are enough of us still alive in the field to overcome the english with our numbers if we could just restore some kind of order .
abandon the person that has abandoned himself .
if he is not born to be hanged, then our present state is pitiful.
i am glad of it .
the turk with very mighty preparation makes for cyprus .
ah, where's my man?
oh clitus !
only a mind that's honest could share some of this woe, although the main part pertains to you alone.
my sweet cassio !
now i see that all three have gotten together to design this false joke in spite of me .
well ,  sir ,  we won’t .
do you hear me ,  old friend ?
you take that.
she’s well .
we all must die ,  messala .
then give it a nice welcome ,  as you would give to any stranger .
come on ,  lazy loafer; come on ,  you child; i'll whip you with a rod .
the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to laertes before you start to play .
no ,  not at all .
dromio ,  bring this money to the centaur inn ,  where we’re lodging ,  and wait there until i come .
call cleopatra what the romans call her .
my papers ,  it is just that i set it all down ,  that one may smile ,  and smile ,  and be a villain ,  at least ,  i am sure ,  it may be so in denmark .
there !
on top of this ,  they’ve either burned or carried away everything that was in the king’s tent .
yes ,  one ,  and this is how i did it .
what will you do ?
my lord ,  i came to see your father's funeral .
well ,  let it strike ten then .
but for one reason they refused to execute her .
o ,  i am slain !
i will be brief ,  for i don’t have enough breath to this tedious tale .
he wouldn’t be a lion if romans weren’t female deer .
when our actions do not make us traitors, our fears do.
after all ,  who would put up with all life’s humiliations—the abuse from superiors ,  the insults of arrogant men ,  the pangs of unrequited love ,  the inefficiency of the legal system ,  the rudeness of people in office ,  and the mistreatment good people have to take from bad—when you could simply take out your knife and call it quits ?
what other ceremony?
what does this mean?
there's a french salutation to your french slop.
inside ,  sir ,  with the earl .
it’s well you offer it behind her back; the wish would other make a noisy house .
why couldn’t you be attended by my servants ,  or by regan’s ?
show me a mistress that is passing fair, what purpose does her beauty serve but as a reminder that i may see some other woman who cannot pass her beauty?
what's best to do ?
but, be careful that you don’t stay after the guards are in place, because then, you cannot get to mantua, where you shall live until we can find a time to publicize your marriage, reconcile your friends, beg pardon of the prince, and call you back with twenty hundred thousand times more joy than you left here in grief.
i didn’t hear anything .
and that’s why he went crazy .
if the turkish fleet isn’t protected in some harbor ,  their men must all be drowned .
didn’t he ,  right away ,  in pious rage ,  kill the two delinquents that were the slaves of drink and in the thralls of sleep ?
here you steal the name you don’t own and have put yourself on this island as a spy, to win it from me, the lord of it.
i have a strange infirmity ,  which is nothing to those that know me .
i know you are loyal and honorable .
yes, truly, for the power of beauty will transform sincerity from what it is to a pimp faster than the force of sincerity can translate beauty into his image.
let’s hear it .
he who survives this day and lives to see old age shall yearly entertain his neighbors on the eve ,  saying ,   “ tomorrow is
set it down .
no ,  to the whitefriars monastery .
gone ?
come ,  come ,  let’s remember why we’re here .
if i should take a displeasure against you, look you,— you were only a lost monster.
with his ambition growing like this—do you hear what i’m saying ?
even he, sir.
aside.
with rosaline ,  father ?
come on !
come, how would you praise me?
did he ask macduff?
that if you be sincere and truthful ,  your sincerity shouldn’t have any talks to your beauty .
how do you feel ?
what ,  not even to pray ?
it looks like these witches are scared of swords .
listen to me me, good brother.
tomorrow ,  caesar ,  i’ll be able to tell you what land and sea forces i can raise for this war .
go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and ,  for this mistake ,  get all the poor men like you together ,  bring them to the tiber river’s banks and weep your tears into the water ,  until the lowest stream floods the highest shores of heaven .
you’d think everyone was asleep .
yet brutus says he was ambitious ,  and brutus is an honorable man .
when remedies are too late, griefs are ended by seeing the worst, which hopes lately depended on.
let’s draw our own swords too .
hide her for a while in your house ,  and tell everyone that she has ,  in fact ,  died .
show him and make him grieve .
i will ,  my lord ,  i beg you to pardon me .
can you tell me whether rosalind ,  duke senior’s daughter ,  has also been banished ?
because everything is sealed and done that relies on this affair .
as far as i know ,  he’s okay and will arrive here soon .
we all begged you not to go ahead with those marriage plans ,  and your lovely daughter struggled between disgust at marrying an african and the desire to obey you .
you’re making me go off - key .
young child of treachery !
will you be crowned tomorrow ?
well ,  well .
do you understand me ?
what do you mean by this?
so when should he come ?
i wish i were sleep and peace ,  so i could spend the night with you .
what ,  strike his wife !
three thousand ducats for three months ,  and antonio will guarantee it .
but ,  as we often see a silence in the heavens ,  after some storm ,  the gales stand still ,  the bold winds speechless ,  and the earth below as hushed as death ,  and eventually the dreadful thunder tears the region ,  so ,  after pyrrhus' pause ,  a roused anger renews him and he begins to work ,  and never did the one - eyed monster’s hammers fall on the god of war’s amour ,  forged for eternal strength ,  with less sorrow than pyrrhus' bleeding sword now falls on priam .
my story does raise that question .
indeed !
oh ,  only time can sort out this mess .
yes ,  my good lord .
you know my daughter's at a pretty age.
hearts cannot think it ,  tongues cannot speak it ,  meas - urements cannot calculate it ,  scribes cannot write it ,  bards cannot sing it ,  and poets cannot make verses about it .
oh heavens !
well ,  death's the end of us all .
have a good life .
take him away .
as long as hell and richard want it .
the king is a thing, a thing, my lord!
hush ,  hortensio .
sir ,  octavius has already arrived in rome .
that’s what i’ll do.
i see you surrounded by the finest nobles in the kingdom that speak my greetings by their thoughts ,  whose voices i want to hear loudly with mine: hail ,  king of scotland !
i just saw him yesterday ,  ”  or  “ the other day ,  ”  or whenever it is ,  you know ,   “ and there he was gambling ,  ”  or  “ there he was ,  totally wasted ,  or fighting with somebody about a tennis match ,  or going into a house of ill repute ” —that means a whorehouse ,  you know—or whatever .
in ten days time ,  if you’re found within twenty miles of the court ,  you’ll die for it .
halt .
six o’clock, at which time, my lord, you said our work should end.
take a little vacation in mantua .
come on ,  get ready .
o villain!
are you riding far ?
isn’t that him on the ground ?
yes, my good lord.
a faithful shepherd worships you .
find out who did it !
thisbe is the lady pyramus is in love with .
it’s a lengthy problem ,  i think ,  to bring them to that event .
you have such a husband in me as she is for a wife .
mother ,  for love of grace ,  don’t put that flattering oil on your soul that says my craziness speaks and not your sin .
this repays me .
sir ,  what is your opinion of me ?
they did, to the amazement of my eyes, that saw it.
what’s pyramus ?
that same villain romeo.
i wouldn’t care about my spirits ,  if my legs weren’t tired .
i rely on your virtue to protect me .
you’re sick ,  yet you sneak out of your warm bed and let the humid and disease - infested air make you sicker ?
the tyrant i’m serving now can go to hell !
he is the jewel, indeed, and gem of the whole nation.
this sin of greediness digs in deeper; grows with a more dangerous root than summer - seeming lust; and it has been the sword of our slain kings .
this is to make a donkey of me ,  to frighten me ,  if they can .
to many men this is a caliban ,  and they are angels to him .
one of them was a man named pinch: a hungry ,  narrow - faced villain; a skeleton; a fraud; a raggedy magician and fortune - teller; a needy ,  hollow - eyed ,  emaciated wretch; a walking corpse .
tut !
oh ,  hamlet ,  how far she fell !
did you bring caesar home ?
they’re asking for dates and quinces in the pastry.
now ,  my companions and brothers in exile ,  hasn’t experience made this simple life sweeter than a life of glittery pomp and circumstance ?
blow the trumpet !
i beg you.
you hateful belly, you womb of death, stuffed full with the dearest morsel of the earth, i will force your rotten jaws to open, and, in spite, i'll cram you fuller with more food!
we’ll have the barber trim it later ,  along with your beard .
silence!
what noise ?
lysander ,  keep your hermia; i will have none of her .
how are you ,  malvolio ?
have you mangled my tongue so badly in these seven short years that my only son can no longer recognize my weak ,  sorrow - ravaged voice ?
the play's the thing wherein i’ll see the conscience of the king .
it is not very strange, for my uncle is king of denmark, and those that would make faces at him while my father lived, paid twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats each for a little picture of him.
the tower’s chaplain has buried them ,  but to tell you the truth ,  i don’t know where .
i think it was a year ago that i told you how much margaret ,  hero’s servant woman ,  likes me .
listen to me .
i have spoken this much to soften the justice of your plea ,  which if you follow ,  this strict court of venice must give a ruling against the merchant there .
or did you agree to this as equals ?
tell me .
very well .
well ,  my friends praise me and make me look like an idiot ,  while my enemies tell me straightforwardly that i am an idiot .
i hear him coming .
in suicide ,  gods make the weak strong .
it wouldn’t be right for me to tell you everything i’ve seen and heard .
if you remember anything before you came here, how you came here, you may remember.
yes ,  i do .
the enemy ,  marching along with them ,  will increase their numbers with them ,  and attack refreshed ,  reinforced ,  and encouraged; we shall cut him off from that advantage ,  if we face him at philippi ,  with these people behind us .
who’s that ?
villainous thoughts, roderigo!
well ,  give me the worst news .
why do we stop talking ,  that most may claim we did this ?
he's very popular with this country’s masses, who like not in their minds, but with their eyes, and where it is so, the offender's punishment is important, but never the offense.
how absolutely clever this chap is !
it’s not manly to cry .
so you’ll go to hell ?
i tell you ,  churlish priest ,  my sister shall be a ministering angel when you lie howling .
your face betrays strange feelings ,  my lord ,  and people will be able to read it like a book .
isn’t it a pain that i can’t choose or refuse anyone ,  nerissa ?
i met my father in the woods yesterday and had a long conversation with him .
the body is with the king ,  but the king is not with the body .
help !
do you see anything in that?
i’ve made a risky investment .
come ,  help me bang on the door ,  master .
what do you want ?
i heard him groan.
go on ,  caesar .
jailer ,  i’m your prisoner .
now you sound like a man .
or why you interrupt our journey on this blasted heath with such prophetic greeting ?
but wait ,  what’s that sound ?
portia, what are you doing?
ho, awake!
be the person you know you are ,  and you’ll be as powerful as this person you fear .
the story goes that, sleeping in my orchard, a serpent bit me.
and like i am for rosalind .
hurry up .
this murderous arrow that's been shot has not yet hit its target ,  and our safest way is to avoid the aim .
she takes these signs for warnings and predictions of terrible evils to come ,  and ,  on her knee ,  she begged me to stay home today .
one of them contains my picture, prince; if you choose that, then i am yours as well.
well ,  then ,  i hope he chokes on it !
now i’ll believe that unicorns exist ,  and that there’s a tree in arabia where the phoenix lives .
come ,  be a man .
you sing ,  and i’ll dance .
most noble antony !  ”  then ,  as she was speaking your name ,  a strangled groan split her words .
i really hope your virtues will bring him to his usual way again ,  to the honor of both of you .
not at all !
do you love me ?
look at you ,  standing there in a stupor !
let’s go to bed ,  knight .
let me go with him.
let’s go .
if you could please stop fooling around ,  i’ll tell you what your mother wants .
bring a conclusion, rather than need a spirit: appear, and quickly.
silence ,  then !
well, to my choice: “who chooses me shall get as much as he deserves.” i will assume i am deserving.
i’m here ,  sir .
look—they’re crying .
but mark,—poor knight, what dreadful sorrow is here!
i’m making a kind offer—zero percent financing .
and made your other love ,  demetrius , — who even just a minute ago spurned me with his foot , — to call me goddess ,  nymph ,  divine ,  and rare ,  precious ,  celestial ?
and ,  although we lay these honors on this man ,  to ease ourselves of different ,  disgraceful burdens ,  he shall only carry them as the donkey carries gold ,  groaning and sweating under the load ,  either led or driven ,  as we point the way; and having brought our treasure where we choose ,  we then unload him and let him loose ,  like an unloaded donkey ,  to shake his ears and graze in the common fields .
good reasons must, of course, yield to better reasons.
two or three men are groaning .
where i have learned how to repent the sin of my stubbornness and disobedience to you and your requests; and i am commanded by holy lawrence to fall flat on the floor here, to beg your forgiveness.
quiet ,  you stupid fool .
are you going to scone ?
what a poor ,  gullible monster . —that was a nice big gulp ,  monster !
no ,  if you strive… but half an hour !
go ,  do what i have told you .
i pardon him, with all my heart; and yet no man like him makes my heart so sad.
why ,  dromio ?
i have heard it said so .
i shall also have cause to speak of that ,  and directly from his mouth whose voice will deliver it .
but you can’t see where you’re going ,  sir .
then whistle to me as signal that you hear something approaching.
i’ve looked at many ladies with pleasure ,  and been
now i’m dromio and no longer attached to him .
i think it can be no other reason but that .
let’s stay and watch a while .
hurry ,  messala ,  and i’ll look for pindarus in the meantime .
do you have unusual snakes there ?
no better?
oh ,  let their bodies follow ,  my dear king ,  to win back what’s rightfully yours with blood and sword and fire .
but who asked you to join us?
i have strange things in my head that need to be figured out, which must be done quickly before others look at them closely.
name one .
have you heard any suggestion to the contrary ?
you’re the ruins of the noblest man that ever lived in the tide of times .
ride ,  ride ,  messala .
bless you !
villain ,  be sure you prove my love a whore; be sure of it .
you won’t play then?
bring him here; let me see his face.
please ,  fool ,  go away .
by mary, before your ladyship, i grant, she puts her voice a little in her heart, and scolds by thinking.
tell me ,  laertes ,  why are you so angry like this ?
despised substance of the most divine show!
what other ceremony ?
for the love of god ,  call a doctor !
that’s where the patient must minister to himself.
because i know the government ,  no matter how angry this makes brabantio with some argument ,  cannot arrest him safely; because he's embarked with such loud reason to the cyprus wars ,  which is being discussed even now ,  that ,  to save their souls ,  they have no one of his depth to lead their armies ,  in which regard ,  although i hate him as i hate hell pains ,  i must still show a flag and sign of love ,  to preserve my present life ,  which is indeed only sign .
it’s hortensio ,  isn’t it ?
it’s mine ,  sir .
at least i don’t have a horse for my mistress—or a saying so beside the point .
you’ve got it wrong ,  old man .
if you were as young as i ,  juliet your love ,  married only an hour ,  tybalt murdered ,  foolish like me ,  and ,  like me ,  banished ,  then you might speak ,  then you might tear your hair ,  and fall upon the ground ,  as i do now ,  thinking about an unmade grave .
you’re right .
i swear ,  this fool has an excellent singing voice .
delay this marriage for a month, a week; or, if you don’t, make my bridal bed in that dim tomb where tybalt lies.
this is to feel the news ,  not hear it .
o, this is a contract and pay, not revenge.
i’m ashamed that i gave in to them.
how could so many people ,  under two masters ,  get along under one roof ?
i say “silver sound” because musicians makes sounds for silver.
hurt him in eleven different places .
who’s shouting ?
i beg you, youth, don’t put another sin on my head by urging me to fight.
believe me, no; i thank my fortune for it, my cargos are not all loaded on one ship, or going to one place, and my whole estate is not based on the fortune of this present year; so, my shipments don’t make me sad.
if we imagine no worse of them than they imagine of themselves ,  they may pass for excellent men .
brutus ,  do not provoke me .
i wonder if titania is up yet ,  and what it was that next came into her sight ,  which she must love in the extreme .
oh ,  poor romeo !
this is my biological father ,  who ,  being more than half - blind ,  nearly stone blind ,  doesn’t know me: i’ll try to confuse him .
seyton, send out.
o proud death, what feast is being held in your eternal cell, that you have killed so many princes so bloodily all at the same time?
romeo will answer it.
what if a rat troubles my house, and i am happy to give ten thousand dollars to have it captured?
look at this army ,  of such size and power ,  led by a delicate and tender prince ,  whose spirit ,  with divine ambition puffed up ,  makes faces at the invisible event ,  exposing what is mortal and unsure to all that luck ,  death ,  and danger dare to do ,  even for an eggshell .
i would rather be married to a skull with a bone in his mouth than to either of these princes .
stop her !
you wake up to have fun ,  and you start work when you go to bed .
be changeable, luck, because then, i hope, you won’t keep him long, but send him back to me.
please ,  if you can do it without taking advantage of the young man ,  buy the cottage ,  pasture ,  and flock for us ,  and we’ll pay you for it .
i’ll warm myself by blowing on the fire .
the old rooster.
i think it’s just before twelve.
but you’d still be gorgeous even if you were as proud as the devil .
fight it like a man .
come, hang them on this line.
about the table ,  sir ,  dinner will be served on it .
no ,  sir ,  i won’t let you go .
here comes kent .
i don’t know whether he combined forces with those of norway, or aided the rebel with hidden help and supplies, or that with both he labored to overthrow his country's government, only his treasons, punishable by death, confessed and proven, have caused his downfall.
my name’s stephano ,  and i’ve come to tell you my mistress will arrive here at belmont before sunrise .
here they come.
with a touch of green in it .
please go .
she will give him a written invitation to some supper .
stand directly in antony’s way, when he runs his course.—antony,— caesar, my lord?
i’m speaking purely in analogies and comparisons .
she speaks a lot about her father ,  she says she hears there are tricks in the world ,  and coughs ,  and beats her chest ,  kicks enviously at nothing ,  says things in doubt that only make half sense .
thinking on her father .
how awful !
oberon is really angry and annoyed ,  because she ,  just like her attendant ,  has a lovely boy ,  that was stolen from an indian king; she has never had so sweet a baby that was stolen .
for what purpose, sir, i beg you?
my pretty cousin, blessing upon you!
what sense did i have of her stolen hours of lust ?
very well, my lord.
which way is it?
my lord ,  they’re waiting for you to give your daughter away to claudio .
in a fit of rage she locked you up in a hollow pine tree ,  with the help of her powerful assistants ,  and left you there for twelve years .
i should be ridiculed if i were offended so easily—and laughed at even more for speaking of you disrespectfully ,  when i had no reason to speak of you at all .
i don’t feel anything .
believe that you are a foolish little baby for believing these  “ offers ”  are something real .
i’ll speak to him now .
give me your hand ,  mr .  mustardseed .
what villain ,  madam ?
i’ll drink as much as you do !
a customer !
it will be out, it will be out.
nothing that i am, not for their own sins, only for mine, cruel slaughter on their souls.
well ,  do your best .
macbeth!
that dreamers often lie.
i have important business that requires me to remain in disguise a while longer .
young romeo, is it?
no ,  indeed ,  they are not .
when you hold up your hand that pure congealed white top, high taurus' snow, fanned with the eastern wind, turns to a crow.
it’s not right to obey his orders to let him go alone .
i recently shared a bed with cassio ,  and i couldn’t sleep because of a raging toothache .
i beg your
defend yourself !
like hell she is !
she's dead, deceased!
against some part of poland.
more than anything else in the world ,  i love you ,  value you ,  and honor you .
oh ,  and young men never die ?
off with his son george’s head !
our captains, macbeth and banquo, were not upset by this?
sir ,  i make my living using an awl .
therefore be happy, cassio; because your lawyer would rather die than lose your case.
then what i have to do will need true colours, tears perhaps for blood.
please lie down and rest a while ,  my lord .
he lost both ,  my lord . —ma'am ,  this letter is from your sister ,  and needs an immediate answer .
yes ,  but i’m afraid you speak out of torture ,  where men will say anything .
so i die with a kiss .
god, god, forgive us all!
what undertaking ,  popilius ?
a friend .
i wish they had stayed !
oh ,  what a horrible day !
here ,  noble lord .
he’s a king ,  a king !
for england!
thinking on her father.
what now ,  sweet queen !
what a jaunt i have had !
or keep it as a jug to hold dirty toads to knot and give birth in !
a hall a hall!
it is the false servant, that stole his master's daughter.
get started ,  i beg you ,  on this speedy voyage ,  for we will control this fear ,  which now goes about too freely .
my lord ,  as i was sewing in my chamber ,  lord hamlet ,  with his shirt all unbuttoned ,  no hat upon his head ,  his stockings dirty ,  not pulled up ,  and fallen down around his ankles ,  pale as his shirt ,  his knees knocking together ,  and with a look so pitiful in its meaning as if he had been freed out of hell to speak of horrors ,  he comes before me .
so that she may live ,  i’ll say i cheated on edward and that she is not really his child .
right on cue .
and all for nothing!
no, please, let it serve for dinner conversation; then, no matter what you say, i shall digest it with the other things i’m eating up.
the king’s son ,  ferdinand ,  with his hair standing straight up—it looked like reeds ,  not hair—was the first person to jump ,  shouting ,   “ hell is empty ,  and all the devils are here !  ”  good job !
richmond is sailing on the sea .
my lord, my lord!
lysander ,  where are you going with all this ?
you must contradict me!
i have been talking with a petitioner here ,  a man that suffers greatly in your displeasure .
take credit ,  god ,  for it is no one’s doing but yours .
o woe !
but what a fool i am to stand here chatting when i should bid good morning to my bride and seal the bargain with a loving kiss .
iras ,  i won’t see you again for a long time .
his glory has not been diminished where he earned it ,  nor have those offenses for which he was killed been exaggerated .
if you can look into the future, and say what will happen, and what will not, then speak to me, who doesn’t beg or is afraid of your favors or your hateful spells.
on what grounds ?
well ,  you know ,   “ some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrust upon them .  ”  anyway ,  i was part of the trick ,  sir .
listen ,  dardanius .
caesar’s sister is named octavia .
break it up .  ”  then he jumped in between them and forced them to put their swords down .
let’s have your applause ,  if we are friends ,  and robin shall make good on his promise .
no indeed, my lord.
right away ,  caesar .
there’s protection in the theft that steals itself when there's no mercy left .
i will set down what she says, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
i think he’s nervous—he’s about to become the savage bull who got domesticated .
patience perhaps meeting with a willful temper makes my flesh tremble in their differences .
gratiano talks more nonsense than any other man in venice .
you drank horses’ urine and water from scum - covered puddles that even animals would refuse .
i don’t, sir.
how can that be, when the king himself says you will succeed him to the throne in denmark?
do as i say ,  i order you .
do you think fiery fever can be put out by the windy puff of titles ?
my gracious king .
i thought it was all for the best.
my lord ,  please go inside here .
nothing ,  but this is true .
you’re torturing me ,  tubal .
i’ll invite the duke and all of his followers .
i didn’t come ,  friends ,  to steal away your hearts .
we march towards birnam .
most high ,  most mighty ,  and most powerful caesar ,  metellus cimber falls before you most humbly .
we come here to help you and you treat us like thugs ,  but you let an african horse climb all over your daughter .
every heart in rome loves and pities you .
did he charge interest ?
here comes sir toby ,  limping .
i am not made of stone; i am affected by all these kind pleas ,  though it goes against my conscience and my soul .
he looks as though he’s in a great hurry !
god defend me from these two!
this hand is moist ,  my lady .
i’ll smear my face with filth ,  put on a loincloth ,  make my hair matted and tangled ,  and face the bad weather wearing almost nothing .
tell it ,  othello .
oh ,  my heart !
but here comes my father.
how foolish your fears seem now ,  calpurnia !
oh ,  i was such a beast to be angry at him .
i am no sea captain, but, if you were as far away as that vast shore washed with the furthest sea, i would risk everything for such a cargo.
she has, and in that decision, is wasting her looks and charms; for beauty, starved with this woman’s severity, cuts beauty off from all posterity.
yes ,  and the best looking too .
why, what's that to you?
good point ,  and well said .
your love!
just looking at him gives me heartburn .
but ,  good lieutenant ,  is your general married ?
are you biting your thumb at us ?
still ,  it is the plague of great men ,  they have fewer choices than common men; it is an unshakeable destiny ,  like death .
the temple-haunting martlet, this bird of summer, approves this place by his loved dwelling places, that heaven's breath smells wooingly here.
and be a happy mother by doing so .
how excellent for antony !
be a rebel for revenge for all these problems ,  and i’ll support you as far as the man who goes the farthest .
i’m not angry that you’re my friend; as for what you’re persuading me to do, i have some plans.
look, how our partner's in such deep thought.
here comes lorenzo .
when he regained consciousness again ,  he said that if he’d done or said anything wrong ,  he wanted them to know that it was all because of his sickness .
she’s always talking when i want to sleep .
you gentle romans— quiet there !
but, listen to me, good shylock.
the door is open ,  sir .
i won’t entertain such a bad thought.
i’ll have nothing else except this only; and now, i think, i have a mind to have it.
i weep for caesar in that he was good to me .
the king will be angry with him .
a gentleman .
very near ,  my master .
oh - ho - ho ,  sir !
all offices are open ,  and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five until the clock rings eleven .
he’s not the most polite man in the world ,  but ,  believe me ,  he’s gentle as a lamb .
what do you have to say ,  my dear nurse ?
you armor my heart .
i say i love you more than he does .
until i know it is done ,  however great my luck ,  my joys can never begin .
right now?
oh ratcliffe ,  i had a terrifying dream !
god in heaven bless her!
i’d rather be wooed by a snail .
we already knew that .
i am almost afraid to stand alone here in the churchyard, but i will stay.
good friend ,  go to him; because ,  by this light of heaven ,  i don’t know how i lost him .
i only believe part of it ,  because my spirit is fresh ,  and i am resolved to meet all perils very constantly .
let the air they ride on be infected and let all those that trust them be damned !
give me your hand .
what is it, ophelia, that he has said to you?
no ,  please ,  sir ,  don’t be angry with me; yet ,  if you’re angry ,  sir ,  i can mend you .
what’s going on here ?
cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant only taste of death once.
in such a night young lorenzo swore he loved her well ,  stealing her soul with many vows of love , — and never a true one .
she always has to have a light next to her .
patience, good sir.
wherever you had it, i won’t take out any embroidery.
tyrant, show your face!
the moor replies that the man you hurt is very famous in cyprus and has a great reputation, and that, in pure wisdom, he might not refuse you, but he protests he loves you and needs no other person begging than his own opinion to take the safest public occasion to bring you back again.
come on ,  balthasar ,  let’s hear that song again .
remember you !
most constantly.
but i’m still afraid .
she had no food today and will have none .
o me, o me!
let me see ,  let me see; isn’t the page turned down where i left reading ?
beware macduff; beware the baron of fife.
they’ve switched their operation to the sea today .
he said he did—i don’t know .
but i have words that would be howled out into the desert air ,  where hearing should not catch them .
conceal my virgin blood, fluttering in my cheeks, with your black mantle, until unknown love, grown bold, thinks that true love is an act of simple modesty.
it was probably just a rumor .
filth ,  you lie !
madam ,  not yet .
if you make any more complaints, i will open an oak and put you inside it until you have howled away twelve more years.
stop ,  for god’s sake !
have you got eyes ?
the ottoman ,  reverend and gracious ,  steering with due course toward the isle of rhodes ,  have joined a later fleet there with them .
the man that once sold the skin of a lion while the beast still lived died hunting him .
we’re three of them .
so often it might happen in particular men that, for some vicious disfigurement of nature in them, like a birthmark— something they are not guilty of because a man cannot choose how he is born— by the overdevelopment of some temperament, that often defies the intelligent use of reason, or by some habit, that too much exceeds the limits of acceptable behavior, that these men, carrying, i say, the stamp of one defect, being the result of nature, or a star of fortune, whatever other virtues they have, even if they are as pure as grace, as infinite as men may have, shall in the general opinion be labeled corrupt from that one particular fault.
they say you are a melancholy fellow .
if luck wants me to be king, luck may crown me without my doing anything at all.
here comes his majesty .
what a drunken imbecile is this!
cobweb .
who comes with her ?
you don’t know my voice ?
listen ,  can you hear me ?
he’s ,  in his retirement to bed ,  exceedingly upset .
well ,  i’m glad about this .
i don’t know .
it’s yours ,  and you may hang us ,  your trophies of war ,  anywhere you like .
i don’t speak to disprove what brutus spoke, but i’m here to speak what i know.
no thanks from his mouth ,  if it were alive to thank you .
i cannot only remember such things that were, that were most precious to me.
then we’ll see that tomorrow night .
go carry them, and smear the sleepy guards with blood.
oh ,  i’m talking too loud . —where’s malvolio ?
the cat with the streaked fur has meowed three times.
do you hear me ?
and it’s all your fault .
didn’t you hear someone shouting ?
it’s true that my brother’s daughter is queen of tunis ,  and heir of naples .
but as far as i can tell ,  people with too much suffer as much as people with nothing .
listen !
do you know why the nose is in the middle of a person’s face ?
i have already slept ,  my lord .
his freedom is full of threats to everyone, to you yourself, to us, to every one.
then i wish to god that i had never seen it!
if you’d known how much that ring meant ,  how much the woman who gave it to you is worth ,  or how much your honor depended on your keeping the ring ,  you wouldn’t have let it go .
true, madam; he, that, of all the men that i have ever seen with my foolish eyes, was the most deserving of a beautiful lady.
to adriana ?
this is i, hamlet the dane.
he’s an admirable man .
can’t you tell that?
you’re on very good terms with the duke of exeter .
don’t think about her .
but why ,  why ,  why ?
me too ,  but still ,  for the sake of good manners ,  i’ll say thanks for your company .
o hamlet, you cut my heart in two.
shylock, there's three times your money offered to you.
roderigo !
how are you ,  soldier ?
when you’ve done all that, go to pompey's porch, where you shall find us.
what’s the trouble ?
let him think about his own debt .
do you think i'd make a life of jealousy to follow still the changes of the moon with fresh suspicions?
hortensio and i have given you up .
only the adulterous and abominable antony abandons you ,  giving his power to a whore who turns that power against us .
only give birth to male children, for your unconquered spirit should be passed on only to males.
even though it’s early ,  there are already a thousand armored soldiers waiting for you at the harbor .
i’ll bite you on the ear for that joke .
but if i shake it up a little it’ll work ,  because every one of those letters is in my name .
if i had three ears ,  i'd still hear you .
the poor souls—how strangely they talk !
can i justifiably and in good conscience make this claim ?
if to preserve this body for my lord from any other evil unlawful touch is not to be a prostitute, i am none.
i don’t even know him .
my grandmother told me he was murdered there .
you have impatience all over your face .
ha ,  ha !
i didn’t see anybody use you for kicks .
there’s no reason to be afraid .
what’s going on ,  my love ?
my lord ,  when i arrived at their home i gave them your letter .
i’m glad about that .
farewell .
get to bed.
the single and peculiar life is bound, with all the strength and amour of the mind, to keep itself from madness, but much more so for that spirit on whose government the lives of many depend and rest.
there lies that same tybalt.
why ,  too much freedom leads to woe .
my soul is stuck to sin ,  and the more it struggles to break free ,  the more it sticks .
if the witches tell the truth—which they did about you—maybe what they said about me will come true too .
just a minute ago i was the owner of this beautiful mansion ,  master of these servants ,  and queen over myself .
she was a hellcat in school .
now ,  by my virginity at twelve years old ,  i told her to come .
coming from sardis ,  two mighty eagles fell on our former ensign ,  and they perched there ,  gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands; who were associated with us here in philippi .
o ,  by this count i’ll be very old before i see my romeo again !
give me your hand .
oh ,  you excellent young man !
you’re a well - dressed lady .
what didn’t you like ?
you told a lie; an stinking, damned lie; on my soul, a lie; a wicked lie.
first of all ,  even if all the obstacles were eliminated and my path led straight to the crown—if it were truly my birthright—i would rather hide from my greatness than hide inside the greatness of the position itself and be smothered by it .
musicians ,  come in !
where is duncan's body ?
o ,  this is rebellion ,  you false danish dogs !
and if you’re not as attentive in serving him as you used to be ,  that’ll be good .
officers ,  take them away .
what horrible desire is this ?
and so far i’m pleased with the way things have turned out ,  since i find all of this commotion very entertaining .
yes ,  i forgot—three months .
you fools!
what !
go get it, let me see it.
i don’t have it with me .
get them in here—nathaniel ,  joseph ,  nicholas ,  philip ,  walter ,  sugarsop ,  and the rest .
what shall we hear of this?
but this storm in my mind keeps me from feeling anything except what’s tormenting me—how ungrateful my children are !
where is the villain ,  edmund ?
eyes ,  look out for the last time !
friends ,  go your separate ways .
get lost !
but don’t let me keep you from going ,  cassius .
i’m coming to end your pursuit of me and leave me to my grief.
answer me that first .
where’s antony ?
i wonder in my soul what you would ask me to do that i should deny, or stand so hesitant about.
now, it’s the very witching time of night, when churchyards awake, and hell itself breathes out disease to this world.
goats and monkeys!
now you sound like a man .
old cassius, be still!
gregory ,  remember how to slash .
run to your houses ,  fall on your knees ,  pray to the gods to stop the plague that must be the punishment for this ingratitude .
swell ,  bosom ,  with your fury ,  because it is from lavender’s tongues !
yes ,  madam ,  that’s the way it goes .
those linen cheeks of your are counselors to fear.
has homely old age taken the alluring beauty from my poor cheeks ?
i’ll go onto the platform first, and explain our caesar's death.
let it be a quarrel between us ,  if you live .
i would have thought she was invincible against any assault of love .
i am glad to see you angry.
i’m very glad to see you .
follow her closely, watch her well, i beg you.
love each other and be friends ,  like two such men should be .
the count is neither sad nor sick nor cheerful nor well—he’s just civil ,  as seville as an orange ,  with the same jealous - yellow complexion .
i love rich capulet’s daughter .
although i hate her ,  i'll not harm her like that .
this hill is far enough . —look ,  look ,  titinius; are those my tents on fire ?
sir, it’s the fifteenth day of march.
aside.
take him to my sleeping area .
lo!
why are you leaving ,  my angry friend ?
and i think that if i hadn’t been brave and strong ,  she would have turned me into a dog and made me her slave .
stillness and nighttime are perfect for beautiful music .
the empire may be in danger if he’s not restrained before he reaches his full potential .
after you die ,  it would be better to have a bad epitaph then than their ill report while you live now .
we don’t doubt it .
what are you?
why should the poor be flattered ?
the river in monmouth is called wye ,  but the name of the other river has gone out of my head .
i think i hear them.
now ,  before god ,  our whole city owes this friar a great debt .
if i were ,  i wouldn’t need to ask you what happened .
they did ,  fluellen .
please, no man leave, except i alone, until antony has spoken.
oh ,  brother montague ,  give me your hand .
if you love rosalind as much as you say you do ,  you will marry her when your brother marries aliena .
which he’ll shove down our throats the way pigeons feed their young .
i didn’t think you could be so angry .
i’ll wait patiently .
is he married ?
macbeth !
i’ll give you a greater gift than that ,  nephew .
isn’t this stephano ,  my drunken butler ?
boy, run to the senate-house; don’t wait to answer me, but get going.
it’s some meteor coming out of the sun to light your way to mantua .
give them the swords, young osric.
trinculo ,  if you interrupt him any more ,  i swear i’ll knock some teeth out of your head .
where ,  where ,  messala ,  does his body lie ?
o husband!
i’ve wanted to see you for a long time now ,  but i sent for you so hastily because i need your help right away .
father and mother is man and wife ,  man and wife is one flesh ,  and so ,  my mother .
i believe that this applause is for some new honors that are to be heaped on caesar.
look how the judge yells at a simple thief .
stop ,  please ,  widow dido .
this fake astonishment of yours is just like your other pranks .
if you are valiant, as, they say, corrupt men being in love have a nobility in their natures that is more than natural to them, listen to me.
what does the silver say ,  with her virgin color ?
would you rather hear these things from our mouths or from our master’s ?
it’s been eleven years since the earthquake; and she was weaned ,  i never shall forget it  ,  of all the days of the year ,  upon that day .
have all your conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  achievements ,  come to so little ?
within an hour ,  one of my men will come to you behind the abbey wall and give you a rope ladder .
i am not merry; but i cheat the thing i am by seeming otherwise .
farewell .
i am true to my intentions; they follow the king's pleasure.
i'll go to him; he is hidden at lawrence' cell .
now i realize your brother tried to kill your father not just because your brother is an evil man ,  but because your father deserved it by being wicked himself .
he’s arrived .
no ,  caesar doesn’t have epilepsy .
he called her a whore so many times ,  and heaped up so much abuse on her that good people can’t stand to hear it .
but i won’t let myself fall for him any more than your permission allows .
you showed your teeth like apes, and wagged your tails like hounds, and bowed like slaves, kissing caesar's feet; while damned casca, like a wild dog, struck caesar from behind on the neck.
your father is a sailmaker in bergamo .
which i made of the bark of a tree ,  with my own hands ,  since i was cast ashore .
our queen is dead too .
i wish you would bear your luck like a man !
what ,  not a word ?
i’ll see you hang first, young filth!
no ,  noble romeo ,  you’ve got to dance .
unleash the dogs in the western valley .
look at me crying—what a fool i am to cry at what makes me happy .
no ,  my dear cousin .
the  “ passionate ”  duke ?
let’s assume that she has a reason ,  which you don’t know yet: have faith that she’ll eventually explain why she shut the doors on you today .
to prison ,  until you’re called into court .
you weep for him to my face?
what is the matter ?
octavius, then take him to follow you, who did the latest service to my master.
then tell me, who's the next heir of naples?
aside .
you swore to me ,  when i gave it you ,  that you would wear it until the hour of your death ,  and that it would go with you to your grave; you should have respected and have kept it though not for me ,  but for your intense oaths .
it’s too bad that antony’s fault should make you look like a jerk .
oh ,  for pete’s sake !
what do you have to tell me ?
a dog of the house of montague motivates me.
your honor ,  in that sense ,  may call him a man .
now he goes, with no less confidence, but with much more love, than young alcides went to redeem the sacrifice of young women made by howling troy to the sea-monster: i stand for sacrifice; the rest aloof are the dardanian wives, with tear-stained faces coming out to view the outcome of the event.
question it, horatio.
the strings ,  my lord ,  are false .
do you hear me ,  cassio ?
virtue itself can turn to vice, if it is misapplied; and vice is sometimes dignified by action.
please ,  sir; crack jokes over lunch .
well then ,  your uncle and the prince and claudio have been deceived .
i was sure your lordship didn’t give it me.
the nine muses mourning the death of learning and scholarship .  ”  that’s some sharp ,  critical satire ,  and it’s not appropriate for a wedding .
answer me like men .
are you, fatal vision, as insensitive to feeling as you are to sight?
clubs, pikes, and more pikes!
what cursed foot wanders this way tonight ,  to disturb my funeral prayers and the rites of true love ?
tell me to run now ,  and i’ll do impossible things ,  yes ,  and get the better of them .
whichever one you want.
i told them to take  oh ,  what a big mistake !
think about it .
i do: and surely it is a sleepy language, and you talk in your sleep.
hey ,  roderigo !
younger than you ,  here in verona ,  ladies of esteem ,  are made already mothers .
but what about the bloody handkerchief ?
oh ,  you’re a clergyman ?
the wind’s whipping up the waves so high you expect them to reach the clouds and splash against the stars in the sky .
i think she will be ruled by me in all respects, no more, i don’t doubt it.
only god above deal between you and me !
o woeful day!
three thousand ducats ,  hmmm .
i’m not much of a drinker .
no more of that ,  my lord ,  no more of that .
what if this cursed hand were thicker than itself with my brother's blood, isn’t there enough rain in the sweet heavens to wash it as white as snow?
now i change my mind ,  and partly credit things that have been predicted .
wake up !
hang ,  dog ,  hang !
he is ready at the door; he comes ,  my lord .
this is a strange rest ,  to be asleep with eyes wide open; standing ,  speaking ,  moving ,  and yet so fast asleep .
that was a humorous message .
away ,  skinny man !
by the mass ,  well said; a merry bastard ,  ha !
there’s no clock here in the forest .
i beg you, no more!
and prompt me ,  plain and holy innocence !
i’d be still plucking the grass to know where the wind blows, looking over maps for ports and piers and roads; and every object that would make me afraid of misfortune to my ships, would make me sad without a doubt.
three times calpurnia has cried out in her sleep, "help, oh!
yes, if i’m alive, and your mind hold, and your dinner worth the eating.
then i shall bleed to death.
thank you .
goodbye ,  sir .
that’s what he said .
tell me your idea first .
uncle ,  i’m coming out !
he’s alive and victorious ,  and mercutio’s dead ?
goodbye !
give him this ,  and tell him keep it better than the other one .
he’s going senile .
sometimes, imitate lysander’s voice, to stir up demetrius’ anger; and sometimes, sound like demetrius; and that way you can lead them from each other, until sleep imitating death creeps over their eyebrows with leaden legs and batty wings.
is this the nature that passion could not shake ?
i'll give you a wind for your sail.
it’s dinnertime ,  my lord .
if they see you, they will murder you.
take in the top sail.
i think you do; and ,  because i know you are full of love and honesty and weigh your words carefully before saying them ,  these stops of yours frighten me even more ,  because such things in a false ,  disloyal rogue are tricks of custom ,  but in a man that's just they're hidden delays ,  working from the heart ,  that passion cannot control .
how ?
i’ll be there early .
if such tricks as these strip you of your lieutenantry ,  it would’ve been better you hadn’t kissed your three fingers so often ,  with which you are again very ready to play the gent .
i sense you’re treating me like a child .
are you ashamed of me ?
are all the rest returning ?
it’s the best thing to do .
are you hurt ,  lieutenant ?
no ,  but ask my opinion too about that .
thanks for your company but ,  really ,  i would have preferred being alone .
he’s dead .
your case ,  dear friend ,  shall be my authority for what i do: as you go to milan ,  i'll come by naples .
we march towards birnam.
apologize ?
why, he that spends twenty years fearing death cuts twenty years off his life.
i couldn’t deliver it, so here it is again, i couldn’t even get a messenger to bring it back to you, they were so afraid of getting infected with the plague.
since they plotted with the dark god of the underworld to kidnap my daughter ,  i have sworn not to be in her and her blind boy's scandalous company .
claribel .
is it possible a young maid's sanity should be die as does an old man ?
good cinna ,  take this paper and be sure to lay it in the judge’s chair where brutus sits ,  so he’ll find it .
he’s welcome here .
what does it matter ?
i wonder if titania is up yet, and what it was that next came into her sight, which she must love in the extreme.
here comes brabantio and the valiant moor.
then ,  brutus ,  i have really misunderstood your passions ,  which is why this my heart has forgotten thoughts of great value ,  worthy thoughts .
do you have the flower ?
in exchange for the blood i shed for you then ,  i ask you for justice now .
or have we eaten some plant root that makes us hallucinate?
yet more quarrelling with purpose!
the will, the will!
not at all ,  not at all .
but if
cousin ,  there's an angry break up that’s fallen between him and my lord ,  but you shall make all well .
these young children cry for clarence and so do i ,  though they don’t cry for edward ,  as i do .
i saw it with my own eyes .
how beautiful mankind is !
we are used to winning by standing on the earth and fighting toe to toe .
i am not yet so low that my nails can’t reach yours eyes .
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand !
yes ,  if you dare to do yourself a profit and a right .
stop there, stop there.
why speaks my father so roughly?
no ,  afterward .
the dearest friend to me, the kindest man, the best conditioned and unwearied spirit in manners, and one in whom the ancient roman honor appears more than any man alive in italy.
o, i wish she knew that she was my love!
rubbish!
but age ,  with his stealing steps ,  has clawed me in his clutch ,  and has shipped me until the land ,  as if i had never been such .
i can .
monday ,  my lord .
let's hide ,  my lord .
what, my lord!
bring his will here ,  and we’ll figure out a way to reduce his bequests to the people .
sir ,  sir ,  that can’t be true .
eros ,  would you like to look through a window in rome and watch your master marching in caesar’s victory parade ,  his arms crossed and tied ,  his head bowed in submission ,  his face red from shame ,  while the chariot of triumphant caesar precedes him ,  putting the final stamp to his humiliation ?
please sir ,  if love or money can buy anything in this empty place ,  tell us where we can rest and feed ourselves .
this villain is much quicker than i am .
wear your wrongs, the title is settled.
you’ll have to bear with me .
but please ,  forgive me ,  your highness .
how are you, cassio!
you mustn’t hold my earlier outburst against me .
speak, man.
tell her to come to me .
i have no power over you .
o cassius ,  you’re connected to a lamb that carries anger as a match makes fire ,  who ,  very irritated ,  shows a hasty spark ,  and right away is cold again .
i could drown the world .
as the sonnet says ,   “ if you please one special person ,  you please everyone who matters .  ”  why ,  what’s going on ?
give me your hand .
she speaks a lot about her father, she says she hears there are tricks in the world, and coughs, and beats her chest, kicks enviously at nothing, says things in doubt that only make half sense.
well ,  how nice ,  a riddle !
where are you going?
i know you .
i’d wager twenty times as much on my wife .
we’ll see our husbands before they even have a chance to miss us .
then i’ll pay you for doing what you like .
well ,  first of all ,  my horse is tired and my master and mistress have had a falling out .
if she should break the moment now !
welcome ,  sir .
i don’t think so ,  my lord .
i’m here ,  here !
no ,  before !
oh ,  you villain !
i beg you, do so.
i  let’s not break the law by starting a fight .
that will never happen .
the grief that does not speak builds up softly in the heart ,  and bids it break .
yes ,  from normandy .
fare you well ,  lord .
if your grace would kindly appoint some members of your council to sit with me once more and go over them more carefully ,  i will give my answer and acceptance right away .
it will be as the gods see fit .
i would have sworn that ,  too ,  my lord ,  especially against benedick .
cleopatra ,  our conquest won’t include either the things you kept back or the ones you listed .
but let me go to my fortune and the chests .
what ,  here ,  horatio !
no, as i am a christian.
i can’t believe i was scared of him !
now i see that you can’t call anything good except in right context .
too late ,  good diomedes .
he won’t catch a wink of sleep ,  either at night or during the day .
i was also ordered to add, hail, most worthy baron, for the title of baron of cawdor is yours.
i dreamed that my lady came and found me dead, strange dream, that gives a dead man a second thought!
what do you think ,  bottom ?
oh ,  he’s drunk ,  sir toby ,  for a whole hour now .
i didn’t .
what ,  aren’t you answered yet ?
now i say good night to your bones ,  hero .
eros ,  can you still see me ?
for all the rest, they'll take a suggestion as a cat licks up milk: they'll turn the clock to any business that we say is right for the hour.
i remember a lot ,  but nothing clearly ,  a quarrel ,  but not why .
i’ll copy the embroidery pattern and then give it to iago .
only yesterday, the word of caesar might have stood against the world.
no ,  my lord ,  unless i could have another husband for the work week .
my royal lord ,  you don’t give the toast .
locked in her tomb .
there i’ll see only myself .
o desdemona !
will you surrender and avoid all this or be called to account for the destruction of this town ?
so it’s no surprise that demetrius runs away from me as if i were a monster .
day has broken .
why ,  would that have fixed my hair ?
hell is murky !
madam, i am not well.
stay here ,  titinius .
i thank you all .
what had he done to make him fly the land?
o good horatio, i’ll take the ghost's word for as real as a thousand dollars!
no talking !
now, fair hippolyta, the time for our wedding is very close; just four more happy days until the new moon.
farewell ,  father .
tybalt ,  mercutio ,  the prince has expressly forbidden this fighting in verona streets .
get out of my face .
give me the cups, and let the kettle drum speak to the trumpet, the trumpet to the cannon man outside, the cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth, 'now the king drinks to hamlet.” come, begin.
sir, sir, sir, but you must certainly be sure that my spirit and my place have power in them to make this bitter to you.
he’s without equal !
the grave where she’s buried, that is also her womb, and, from her womb, we find children of diverse kinds when we are sucking on her natural bosom; many plants are excellent for many virtues, some have none, others have some, but are all different.
no ,  truly ,  sir; not a penny .
with god’s help .
answer that.
near  how large is his land army ?
they have a massive army .
we have been up and down looking for him.
i won’t consider it .
as i was sleeping under this yew tree here ,  i dreamed that my master and another fought ,  and that my master killed him .
got it ,  sir .
let me go with you .
come now !
and a good lady ,  and a wise and virtuous lady .
don’t doubt it, cassio, that i will have my lord and you as friendly again as you were.
what ring did you give, my lord?
are you all crazy ?
my lord the ruler of burgundy ,  i’ll speak to you first .
they’re as opposite as hot and cold .
i don’t know what may happen; i don’t like it .
now i’ll offend you whether i give it to you or not .
don’t tell me about mercy; this is the fool that lent out money for free: jailer, look to him.
no ,  cassius ,  no .
has it come to this ?
helena ,  it’s not true .
has this fellow no feeling of his business ,  that he sings at grave - digging ?
o banquo, banquo!
a gentler judgment vanished from his lips ,  not your body's death ,  but your body's banishment .
by jupiter ,  if i were antony ,  i wouldn’t shave my beard today .
the night’s too rough for humans to bear .
don’t worry about the cost .
tell her about my son paris’s love for her .
sometimes a thousand twanging instruments will hum about my ears; and sometimes voices ,  that ,  if i then had wakened after long sleep ,  will make me sleep again: and then ,  in dreaming ,  the clouds i thought would open and show riches ready to drop on me; that ,  when i wakened ,  i cried to dream again .
i hear you say  “ proud ”  and  “ i thank you ,  ”  and then  “ no thank you ”  and  “ not proud ,  ”  you spoiled little girl .
o ,  royal caesar !
my request to her is ,  that she will manage to get me access to virtuous desdemona .
though his ship will not be lost, it will be tossed about on the rough ocean.
he, fast of foot, outran me; and i returned because that i heard the clink and fall of swords, and cassio swearing loudly; which, until tonight, i never saw him do before.
believe me on my honor and keep my honor in mind ,  so you may believe me .
until then ,  god be with you !
ingratitude is always hideous ,  but an ungrateful child is uglier than a sea monster !
my freedom .
the law that threatened you with death becomes your friend and turns it into exile.
this guy has legs like a man but fins for arms !
so be careful .
my wife!
meet me in a little while at the citadel .
but ,  look !
beat the drum .
can we go ?
i’m so crazy about you !
don’t take my love for granted .
but our courage should only be the greater for that .
then he’s the whining schoolboy ,  with a book bag and a bright ,  young face ,  creeping like a snail unwillingly to school .
here is my son, sir, a poor boy— not a poor boy, sir, but the rich jew's man, that would, sir,—as my father shall specify— he has a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve— indeed the short and the long is, i serve the jew, and have a desire, as my father shall specify— his master and he, god save you, sir, are almost like cousins— to be brief, the very truth is that the jew, having done me wrong, causes me,—as my father, being i hope an old man, shall frutify to you— i have here a dish of doves that i wish to give you, sir; and what i want is— in very brief, what he asks is impertinent to myself, as you, sir, shall know from this honest old man; and, though i say it, though old man, yet poor man, my father.
aside .
how sweet love is when it is yours, when only love's shadows are so rich in joy!
speak my thoughts?
get him to say his prayers ,  sir toby ,  get him to pray .
i hope things go well there .
we shall have old swearing that they gave the rings away to men; but we'll confront them, and outswear them too.
i’ll do my best ,  madam .
read it, mark antony.
take it any way you like .
as for me ,  i embrace my fortune with sorrow .
this is a stranger business than men have ever set foot in before ,  and it’s not natural either .
please give me that; i'll carry it to the pile.
what is the matter, ho?
go on, and see whether brutus is alive or dead, and bring us word how everything happened to octavius' tent.
caesar wrote for him to come to rome .
he has his moods and his ways .
what the problem should be, more than his father's death that has put him so much from the understanding of himself, i cannot dream of.
i’ll tell her .
i’m your master ,  dromio .
please margaret ,  help me write this poem for beatrice .
i don’t know what to believe ,  father .
i thank you for this lesson; and from this point forward, i'll love no friend, since love breeds such contempt.
i swear ,  old fools become like babies again .
i wouldn’t follow him then .
such tricks have strong imagination, that, if it would only catch some joy, it understands some bringer of that joy; or in the night, imagining some fear, how easy is a bush thought to be a bear?
you must all keep up this united front .
but look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
i'll go farther away .
why are your swords drawn ?
the back-handed thrust!
a crazy bastard .
what, man!
please listen to me speak.
now ,  the next day was our sea - fight ,  and what followed you know already .
but if we have reasons that are strong enough to ignite cowards into action and to make weak women brave—and i think we do—then ,  countrymen ,  what else could we possibly need to spur us to action ?
i am tired .
and i will spend our time apart on my knees ,  praying for you .
fill the cup, lucius, until the wine overflows; i can’t drink too much of brutus' friendship.
did i do anything good to myself ?
what would you like me to do ?
now, you blasphemer, who sent grace overboard with swearing, don’t you have an oath on shore?
here he comes .
but you must learn to recognize such liars ,  or you will be greatly taken advantage of .
one more, one more; be like this when you are dead, and i will kill you, and love you after.
even if we fail at that ,  we can still fight him on land .
you’d better bring the messenger safely through the lines so he can return .
i am unfit to rule and to be king .
you’ve come to face a ruthless enemy ,  an inhuman wretch incapable of pity ,  without any feelings of mercy .
didn’t i meet your friends?
but tell us ,  did you hear anything about antonio’s loss at sea ?
well ,  it’s as plain as the beaten path to a parish church .
with his natural luck ,  he will beat you even against the odds .
if only all struggles ended this well .
there’s no one else here .
come on ,  give me your best shot .
what do you say about this change ?
do that .
go out and feel what the impoverished feel .
dismiss me ?
you are welcome .
what ,  shall i groan and tell you ?
i wish there was less social pressure to drink .
say when .
let me tell you ,  friends—
from now on this is what i’ll think of your love .
that’s just what i thought .
this scene is chaotic .
but back to that argument you mentioned .
i think it’s yours indeed ,  for you lie in it .
oh!
yes; as sparrows are by eagles, or the hare is by the lion.
oh ,  for god’s sake .
out, you bag of garbage!
damn !
please, sir, what rude salesman was this that was so full of his own trickery?
calmly, good laertes.
pray god ,  your voice ,  like a an unused gold coin ,  can’t be cracked within the ring .
the wisdom of your loyalty ,  fair bianca ,  has cost me a hundred crowns since dinner .
are you of good or evil ?
then you are damned .
witness the hole you made in caesar's heart ,  crying ,   " long live !
come, some music!
o ,  horrible !
ready .
now i’ve done a good day’s work .
i’ll go, sir, and not trouble you.
in the end i left them standing in the smelly pond behind your room ,  with the stinking water covering them up to their chins .
well, well.
enough of this .
excuse me ?
things have turned out so unluckily ,  sir ,  that we haven’t had time to convince our daughter to marry you .
now i am alone .
but what am i afraid of ?
really ,  audrey ,  i wish you were more poetical .
and i am ,  i am .
come now ,  my sweet bianca !
i don’t know what its intentions are ,  but ,  in the plainness and freedom of my opinion ,  this foretells some strange eruption to our state .
see, they greet you with their hearts' thanks.
shame on you!, shame on you!!
how did she get out ?
then if he dies ,  his death serves him .
have you prayed tonight ,  desdemona ?
you know he was the one, in the times past, who held you back from promotion, and you thought it was our innocent self.
i wish them all safe trips home .
you shall not come to them .
it would anger him to raise a spirit in his mistress' circle, of some strange nature, letting it stand there until she had laid it down, and conjured it down.
antony’s wife should have an army to escort her ,  with neighing horses to announce her arrival long before she appears .
my husband is often like this ,  and he has been since he was a child .
have you sent anyone to bottom’s house ?
ha !
i’m afraid you’ve sold your own land to see other men’s .
then lay that sentence on me too ,  my lord .
do you win?
my husband said that she was unfaithful !
if she lives a long and happy life ,  then all women may as well turn into monsters .
he’s still sharp when it comes to carrying out a bold or noble enterprise ,  though he puts on this show of stupidity .
are they washing out his wounds with their tears ?
don’t think i’m so dumb that i don’t know that the devil himself won’t eat a woman .
the note is a big fat liar if it says i said so .
if they march along unopposed ,  i will sell my dukedom for a sodden ,  filthy farm in that craggy isle of albion .
just as tall as my heart .
who’s there ?
a sweet woman!
in that event, you gods, you make the weak the strongest; in that event, you gods, you defeat tyrants.
talk to him again, and he’ll like you again.
o you hard hearts, you cruel men of rome, didn’t you know pompey?
damn it !
it’s coming toward me .
what ?
pay me three times the amount of the loan and let the christian go .
i have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily diluted too, and behold, what changes it makes here.
he’s definitely drunk now .
how is your patient, doctor?
may i have a word with you?
i can only say this about her: if she looked different than she does ,  she would be ugly ,  and since she can’t be anything but herself ,  i don’t like her .
the story goes that ,  sleeping in my orchard ,  a serpent bit me .
why are they shouting ?
i will pour some in your other mouth.
who are you here that cry so grievously?
o woeful day!
madam ,  there’s a young gentleman at the gate who really wants to speak to you .
do you know where we may catch her and the moor ?
god have mercy, what do you want with me?
but what’s this i see ?
i can tell by the way you waggle your head .
now this joke has turned serious .
goodbye ,  then .
do you think so, spirit?
here’s a postscript !  .
what power can rein in promiscuous evil once it’s gotten rolling ?
away, go!
the gentleman she danced with told her you insulted her .
it’s true that your son lucentio here loves my daughter ,  and she loves him—or else they’re putting on quite an act .
wake up ,  sir ,  wake up .
only god above deal between you and me!
i just meant that you should use some holy thistle .
nobody comes?
go to her and tell her for me .
what about the naming of this gentleman?
roast me in fires of sulphur!
it’s hamlet's handwriting.
i am sorry that i didn’t treat him with better heed and judgment .
how long has he been in there?
i could take back my crown by force—what outrageous ingratitude !
if i have the habit of shaking, then proclaim that i am the doll of a girl.
i thought the king preferred the duke of albany to the duke of cornwall .
please have a seat .
here ,  horrible shadow !
a friendly eye could never see such faults.
is this a prologue or a ring of flowers?
you praise the worst best .
oh ,  i wish you’d never been born !
too late is more like it .
where?
why, how is it now!
what, will these hands never be clean?
the greatest hurdle is behind me .
i beg you ,  whose joints move easier than mine to follow them swiftly and stop them from what this vision may now provoke them to do .
stop right there ,  sir .
if you were as young as i, juliet your love, married only an hour, tybalt murdered, foolish like me, and, like me, banished, then you might speak, then you might tear your hair, and fall upon the ground, as i do now, thinking about an unmade grave.
hold, for your lives!
but you can make it up to me .
and anything else ?
oh, wise young judge, how i honor you!
what if it be a poison, which the friar has secretly given me to have me dead, so that he shouldn’t be dishonored because he married me to romeo before paris?
while i threaten, he lives; words give breath to the heat of deeds that are too cold.
only for poor men ?
if my eyes aren’t deceiving me ,  goodbye ,  love .
damn her ,  lewd cat !
and that’s how you must take your husbands.
swear priests and cowards, and deceitful men, old feeble dead bodies and such suffering souls that welcome wrongs; swear to bad causes that such creatures as men doubt, but don’t stain the even goodness of our undertaking, or the unsuppressed character of our spirits, to think that our cause and our performance need oaths, when every drop of blood that every roman carries, and carries nobly, is guilty of causing the birth of several bastards, if he breaks the smallest particle of any promise that he has made.
oh ,  regan ,  goneril ,  your kind old father whose generous heart gave you everything—oh ,  if i think about that i’ll go mad .
and ,  gentle puck ,  take this transformed ass’s head off of the head of that athenian man ,  so that when he wakes up at the same time as the rest of them do ,  they can all go back to athens .
my brother gloucester’s voice ?
apollo flies ,  and daphne chases him; the dove pursues the vulture; the mild deer runs faster to catch the tiger — helpless speed ,  when cowardice chases and courage flies .
do they attract big audiences ?
if it looks like my good father ,  i’ll speak to it ,  even if hell itself opens up and tells me to be quiet .
then bid them prepare dinner.
listen ,  guildenstern ,  and you too ,  with each ear .
there she is ,  over there .
trebonius when to act ,  because ,  look ,  brutus ,  he’s taking mark antony out of the way .
call them .
but in this case of wooing ,  a child shall father his own father—if my wits don’t fail me .
tear him apart for his bad verses, tear him apart for his bad verses.
we rejoice to see you ,  most worthy brother of england .
what, hello!
doesn’t it go well?
freedom ,  high - day ,  freedom !
she’s only sad when she sleeps—and not even then .
you speak truly; it is so, indeed.
stop advising me; your words pass through my ears like water through a sieve .
good for you ,  holding out on me like this !
it’s not yet daylight .
have you killed tybalt ?
there was no harm ,  i’m telling you .
o my prophetic soul!
let him command me ,  and i’ll do whatever he asks ,  no matter how violent .
a cry more tuneable was never called to, or cheered with a horn, in crete, in sparta, or in thessaly.
show .
tell him to surrender .
we did ,  my lord ,  weeping and carrying on about the sobbing deer .
you didn’t offend us ,  you offended the king .
he is a notorious villain .
i hear some noise .
let's tell him goodbye.
does any one know if donalbain be with his brother?
meanwhile ,  thank you for your efforts .
go to the gate .
is the king coming ,  i beg you ?
i didn’t write about breaking the alliance with antony until i saw you were being misled and realized how dangerous it would be to keep postponing preparations .
it’s time to leave.
in such a night jessica stole away from the wealthy jew, and ran from venice with a poor love as far as belmont.
she says she thinks this is a prank .
i mean, if we are angry, we will draw our swords.
that's even more evil .
did you accompany caesar home ?
there it goes ,  silver !
set him free .
oh hell!
at nine in the morning ,  we'll meet here again .
you tremble and look pale.
my lord, i don’t know, but i truly fear it.
then heaven have mercy on me!
the english army ,  sir .
speak!
a thing of no importance .
he was some such squire that turned your wit inside out ,  and made you to suspect me of sleeping with the moor .
come on ,  let’s get to the banquet .
what cannot be preserved when fortune takes it ,  patience makes a mockery of her injury .
by the way ,  if i were to compose an extra speech of twelve to sixteen lines and stick it into the play ,  you could learn it by heart for tomorrow ,  right ?
that light is not daylight, i just know it.
it must be something i did accidentally .
your authorization is ready .
these lovers are saying some strange things ,  theseus .
come out ,  beautiful sun—until i’ve bought a mirror to admire my reflection in ,  i’ll watch my shadow as i stroll along .
o, he's the courageous captain of compliments.
you can hope your father isn’t your real father .
ok. go ahead.
their defeat grew by their own actions .
fiend angelical !
he laughed at that and let me go .
no ,  i promise you; i won’t risk my reputation so stupidly .
i am too good to be in love with someone so low!
people with too much invested in the world always get hurt .
a tailor made you .
i don’t know what to say .
again ,  again !
are you really as in love as your poems declare ?
that’s just how he is .
the jew shall have my flesh ,  blood ,  bones ,  and everything ,  before you shall lose one drop of blood for me .
but even so ,  we can’t do without him .
you have no weapon, and must be forced to suffer.
the prince of arragon has taken his oath ,  and he’s coming to make his choice now .
is this possible ?
are you sure we’re talking about what we’ve seen here ?
who are you ?
stand still .
go and get our stuff onto the ship .
i would risk purgatory for it.
actually ,  i’m still feeling some pangs of conscience .
please say no more .
goodbye .
it is othello's pleasure ,  our noble and valiant general ,  that on certain news now arrived ,  concerning the mere total destruction of the turkish fleet ,  every man rejoice ,  some to dance ,  some to make bonfires ,  each man to whatever sport and revels his disposition leads him ,  because ,  besides this good news ,  it is the celebration of his wedding .
go to him ,  sir topas .
sometimes she tickles a priest’s nose with a  enough ,  enough !
honestly ,  sir ,  i’d need to use words to explain why ,  and since words are so unreliable and false ,  i’d rather avoid using them in a serious discussion .
great duke ,  be merciful to mortal men .
of course i hear it .
what are doing away from home?
i will ,  as surely as i am a gentleman .
listen, get going and, once and for all, stop following me!
we will talk about this more of this tomorrow .
come ,  vial .
this imaginary suitor for katherina—i’d buy him the best horse in padua if he’d get here quickly ,  woo her ,  marry her ,  take her to bed ,  and rid the house of her .
as long as you move gracefully ,  look handsome ,  and say nothing ,  i’m yours for the dance .
has anyone seen cesario ?
don’t do it with poison .
you are too expensive to wear every day .
where are you hiding ?
he will be given safe conduct and money for his passage home .
yes ,  very well ,  sir .
do you have the lion’s part written down ?
we don’t doubt it .
shall i let them exhibit me to the shouting mobs of rome ?
isn’t he an honest man ?
he’s gone ,  and his wife’s dead .
it’s disgraceful !
your spirits wildly peep from your eyes, and, as the sleeping soldiers at the alarm, your bedded hairs, like life in growths, start up and stand an end.
i haven’t seen anything .
everyone there got a little crazy and pulled some desperate stunts .
this’ll be a wonderful kingdom to live in ,  where they play music for free .
but why did you tempt the sky like that ?
lysander, if you live, good sir, wake up!
go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and to make up for having done wrong ,  gather up all the poor men like yourselves ,  lead them to the tiber ,  and weep into the river until it overflows its banks .
why ,  then the poles never will defend it .
yes, shylock, i’ll put my seal to this promise to pay.
welcome home ,  grumio .
captain jamy is a wonderfully valorous gentleman ,  that’s certain ,  one with great learning and knowledge concerning ancient warfare ,  i happen to know from his maneuvers .
master young man ,  you ,  please; which is the way to master jew's ?
good point ,  decius .
farewell ,  farewell !
alas, how are you, that you look on empty space, and carry on a conversation with the invisible air?
where is my lord ?
this way doves with nimble wings draw love, and that’s why the wind-swift cupid has wings.
something of the moment ,  then .
it should seem, then, that dobbin's tail grows backward; i am sure he had more hair on his tail than i have on my face when i last saw him.
that is because the traitor murderer lives.
signior leonato ,  listen to the friar’s plan .
where is he?
one last thing ,  and this is up to you .
and will you tear our ancient love apart to join with men in scorning your poor friend?
you’re just playing around .
most like a gentleman.
macbeth is ripe for the picking .
that’s the consideration that makes us stretch out our sufferings so long .
i’ve sent twenty people to look for you .
i have to ask you something.
evidence enough to deceive the prince ,  anger claudio ,  ruin hero ,  and kill leonato .
what ,  are you busy ?
no ,  lady .
rise ,  princes ,  and ,  with a spirit of honor more sharply edged than your swords ,  rush to the battlefield: charles delabreth ,  high constable of france; you dukes of orléans ,  bourbon ,  berri ,  alençon ,  brabant ,  bar ,  and burgundy; jaques chatillon ,  rambures ,  vaudemont ,  beaumont ,  grandpré ,  roussi ,  and fauconberg ,  foix ,  lestrale ,  bouciqualt ,  and charolois .
what news ,  my love ?
me ,  marry her ?
lose nothing ?
i don’t know .
no, caesar shall not.
down with the montagues!
and i’m brutus, marcus brutus; brutus, my country's friend; know me as brutus!
my honored lord !
some good men carry him carefully from here; i'll fetch the general's surgeon.
what have i said in my grief ?
wait ,  madam .
when you do find him, or alive or dead, he’ll be found like brutus, like himself.
madam ,  you’ve treated me badly ,  very badly .
ready.
the king of naples ,  my arch - enemy ,  listens to my brother’s request ,  which was that the king ,  in exchange for the respect and money paid to him ,  would get rid of me and make my brother duke of milan instead .
let the rain spray !
good morning to both of you .
know this much.
no, but swear it.
malcolm !
a good dinner for guests is more like one that’s bought rather than given ,  if the host doesn’t make frequent toasts .
as long as there are
uncle ,  this is a montague ,  our foe; a villain ,  that has come here in spite ,  to scorn at our feast this night .
goodbye.
so decide what loss your honor may receive if you listen to his songs with a too believing ear, or lose your heart, or lose your virginity to his wild sense of bad timing.
you see how the world goes ,  volumnius .
we can’t be in two places at once ,  both here and there !
and the queen too, and they should be here presently.
it’s not friendly ,  and it’s not ladylike .
the more i hate him, the more he follows me around.
it is the false servant ,  that stole his master's daughter .
bring him here; let me see his face .
he likes me ,  and i’ve given him good reason to .
how can you top that ?
i think our garments are now as fresh as they were when we first put them in africa ,  at the wedding of the king's fair daughter ,  claribel ,  to the king of tunis .
you praise the worst best.
why ,  gentle sweet ,  you shall see no such thing .
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; fire ,  burn; and caldron ,  bubble .
if you do love me, tell me what you were thinking.
this man said ,  sir ,  that don john ,  the prince’s brother ,  was a villain .
an evil soul producing holy witness is like a villain with a smiling cheek, a good apple rotten at the heart.
the fit is momentary; in a minute, he will again be well.
then i heard the trumpets blow twice ,  and left him there in a trance .
according to an agreement ,  i should wear it myself .
it makes me angry .
the only possible interest i could take in you would be to hit you on the head with a stool ,  paint your face with blood ,  and make a fool out of you .
you take the bill and i’ll take your yardstick .
i'll make you an example .
hello ,  sir !
we would profane the other dead souls here if we sang the same requiem for her that we sang for them .
if that’s what you say ,  go fight a duel with me and prove it .
my lord ,  he has wrung from me my reluctant permission by asking me again and again ,  and i finally had to give in .
yes ,  but i am insulting myself by thinking this way .
what support did i have other than edward ?
he’s giving her a taste of her own medicine .
why  “ puppet ”  ? —oh ,  i see where this is going .
let them start the battle immediately because i see only cold appearances in octavius' part of the army, and a sudden push will overthrow them.
stephano !
but here's a parchment with the seal of caesar , — i found it in his bedroom , —it’s his will .
for when you cut your shin .
i'll know his disposition when he knows the right time .
the other girl did not love me .
amen .
no ,  then ,  i’ll send those to you who can speak .
they met me on the day we won the battle ,  and i have learned by the most perfect report that they have more in them than mortal knowledge .
now i’m a sensible man ,  soon a fool ,  and now a beast !
but look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading .
the loss cannot be repaid ,  and patience says it is beyond her cure .
true ,  he has an excellent reputation .
i’d rather have my horse than a mistress .
i remember you took the throne from your brother prospero .
in algiers ,  sir .
so do i.
whatever else happens tonight ,  i hope the king escapes safely !
let me embrace you .
true, worthy banquo!
if the world were mine, and demetrius mine, i would give everything else to you to be changed anyway you want.
here comes my man .
how the hell does he know our language ?
come ,  i'll go in with you .
tell me ,  who had him arrested ?
yes, at philippi.
that’s what i thought too ,  sir .
what’s that ,  you runt ?
how can these things in me seem like ridicule to you ,  when my tears prove them to be true ?
then here comes one with light to open the tomb, and, by-and-by, my master drew his sword on him; and then i ran away to call the guards.
we'll answer.
your ear is good .
pretty soul !
how is it with her ?
what are you doing here?
may the god of power make me ,  the weakest of the weak ,  your mediator .
i might call him a divine thing; because i have never seen anything so natural that was so noble .
how!
how many ,  can you guess ?
does that necessarily mean you should love his son ?
romeo spoke nicely to him ,  asked him to consider how silly the quarrel was ,  and in addition ,  advised him of your high displeasure .
what bout your thought ,  iago ?
do you see that these lovers are looking for a place to fight ?
you know i say nothing to him ,  because he doesn’t understand me ,  and i don’t understand him: he doesn’t know latin ,  french ,  or italian ,  and you will come into the court and swear that i only know a penny’s worth of english .
never mind, don’t tell me, for i have heard it all.
romeo can, though heaven cannot.
me too—otherwise i would have had to duel with claudio .
did you and he agree to cassio's death ?
i will confess to you that i love him .
oh ,  noble judge !
leave me, and do as i ask you.
who called for you?
good sir, whose armies are these?
but then again he’s never really understood his own feelings very well .
that “may be” must be, love, on next thursday.
more and more pain for us .
sir john falstaff .
you’re not going to take him .
guard them carefully until we decide how to punish them .
please ,  sir ,  restrain yourself .
make it a word and a blow .
okay ,  but when ?
so i  your honor’s actors ,  hearing of your recovery ,  have come to perform a pleasing comedy for you—and your doctors approve wholeheartedly .
if you wish to speak of love ,  speak more softly .
everything depends on this: either be out of here before the night watchmen take their positions ,  or leave in disguise after daybreak .
take care of the queen !
o you hard hearts ,  you cruel men of rome ,  didn’t you know pompey ?
the king was wearing exactly this armor when he fought the king of norway .
in that case ,  leave our cousin katherine here with us .
there’s something else .
hello ,  my friends !
that you’ve wronged me shows in this action: you’ve condemned and punished lucius pella for taking bribes from the sardians here ,  and my letters ,  taking his side because i knew the man ,  were blown off .
we told him about them, and it seemed to make him happy to hear of it.
why ?
stay here for a bit; you shall not go back until i have carried this corpse into the market place.
seriously ,  i think our clothes are as fresh now as they were the day we put them on in africa ,  when we attended the marriage of the king’s daughter claribel to the king of tunis .
that i have, lady.
i will go find him .
poor soul ,  your face is very wet with tears .
if you survive ,  i’ll live .
yes ,  it does .
come in ,  who ever is out there !
the moon sleeps with her lover, and does not want to be awakened!
if we’d fought like this before ,  we’d have driven them home with bandaged heads .
craziness in great ones must not go unwatched .
you are unkind ,  demetrius; don’t be like that ,  because you love hermia .
sir, amen.
you certainly deserve it .
that’s true—if the devil’s judging her .
cassio ,  my lord ?
crystal is muddy .
what we want to do, we should do when we would, for this 'would' changes, and has stoppages and delays as many as there are voices, hands, accidents, and then this 'should' is like the sigh of a spendthrift, that hurts by easing up.
if there’s anything more sorrowful left to add ,  keep it to yourself .
is signior lucentio at home ,  sir ?
stay here at your own risk; i will go on alone .
who’s that ?
in orsino’s heart .
the powerful dukes gloucester and buckingham .
o my soul's joy!
he has refused it in the open court; he shall merely have justice ,  and his promise to pay .
my master's.
look at other beautiful girls .
do you see that cloud over there that's almost in shape of a camel ?
that's not so good now .
and this is the man who has now become a god ,  and i’m a wretched creature who must bow down if caesar so much as carelessly nods my way .
don’t be her maid ,  since she is so jealous .
if it’s fighting he is after ,  some of us here should run and hide .
what ,  hey !
o ,  i am fool for the goddess of luck !
if i miss this ,  let me be boiled alive .
beautiful lady, excuse me; i come off to the side, to give and to receive.
pardon me, a word or two before you go.
he shall ,  sir ,  if it pleases him .
away!
if he doesn’t come, then the play is incomplete; it doesn’t go on, does it?
the turk with very mighty preparation makes for cyprus.
madam, your mother craves a word with you.
i’ll let you get away with skipping the praise .
monday ,  my lord .
check and see if he’s breathing .
everyone thought it would pass then ,  and it probably would have had it not been for the great civil unrest and uncertainty of the time ,  which required the matter to be put off .
keep this man safe, give him all kindness; i would rather have such men as my friends than enemies.
they wouldn’t say anything ?
i remember a fight ,  but not why we were fighting .
i will have to go on a journey to death soon ,  sir .
i beg you ,  come in .
she is not sick ,  my lord ,  but she is troubled with endless visions that keep her from sleeping .
i am still so faithful ,  my lord .
not now .
well ,  wednesday is too soon ,  make it thursday .
here comes the lady.
with demetrius .
insolent  oh ,  the good gods !
i’ll go get my sister and see what she thinks .
tell me one .
what ,  and my old venetian friend ,  salanio !
it was my magic that saved you when i arrived on the island and heard you ,  making the pine tree open and let you out .
so the lion disappeared .
i kissed you before i killed you.
i was deceived all the more.
to every roman citizen he gives seventy-five dollars each.
listen to this ,  king: as soon as we sent those irish soldiers running for cover ,  the norwegian king saw his chance to attack us with fresh troops and shiny weapons .
when it comes to defense ,  it’s best to assume that the enemy is more powerful than he seems .
and she breathed such life with her kisses on my lips ,  that i was brought back to life ,  and i was an emperor .
god help me !
shall i be married ,  then ,  tomorrow morning ?
let’s see ,  how can i
yes, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
only how will you do for a father?
she is unfortunate ,  indeed deranged .
no, lay down and roar; because you have killed the sweetest innocent that ever lifted open eyes.
for my part ,  i really don’t care .
that monster habit ,  who eats all sense ,  of all evil habits is an angel in this ,  that in order to use fair and good actions ,  he likewise gives a dress or uniform that is ready to wear .
not because we love words better, as you do.
what is it ,  agrippa ?
kent ,  father ,  sisters !
but you’ve raised me as a peasant ,  hiding from me what i needed to become a gentleman .
but ,  since the affairs of men still seem uncertain ,  let's think about the worst that can happen .
no, my good lord.
what blessed work ,  my king .
stay, fellow; i can read.
here’s a sick man who wants to speak with you .
i will say so .
what’s the bet ?
you’re mistaken .
this is just another one of the hallucinations you always get when you’re afraid .
let her be strict with him, and i’ll be hide, if it pleases you, so i can hear of all their conference.
it won’t be long before i’m back .
i swear to god i won’t .
be quiet for a while . —robin ,  take off his donkey head . —titania ,  get the fairies to play some music ,  and make these five people sleep more soundly than humans have ever slept before .
mercutio's relative, noble count paris!
you get your money’s worth of sleep now.
but with much forcing to make himself do it.
signed ,     the poorly treated malvolio .  ”  did he write this ?
most rightful judge!
let me stand here until you remember.
i will not choose what many men desire, because i will not jump with common spirits and rank myself with the barbarous multitudes.
so, kneel down, and beg mercy of the duke.
beware macduff .
you would take it back ?
i saw it in the orchard .
you have to be patient ,  madam .
my situation is desperate .
greater than both ,  by the all - hail hereafter !
no ,  your words are too precious to be wasted on dogs .
i’m happy the dauphin has such a good sense of humor .
neighbors and friends ,  though we don’t have anyone for the bride and bridegroom’s places at the table ,  you know there’s nothing missing in the feast itself .
please don’t mock me, fellow-student.
dorset ,  embrace hastings . —hastings ,  express your affection for the marquess of dorset .
it’s easy for a liar to pretend to feel sorrow when he actually feels none .
but you wouldn’t know what a bad feeling i have inside.
go ,  bid the huntsmen wake them up by blowing the horns .
that's horrible and shows very bad manners in the fool that uses it.
i don’t know ,  sir .
why, how are you, hecate?
o brave monster!
this is a strange rest, to be asleep with eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving, and yet so fast asleep.
i’ll go find him .
nothing but to show you how a king may progress through the guts of a beggar .
how did he receive you ,  let me be convinced .
can you ask around and find out ?
is this true, nerissa?
will you be going to scone ?
can vengeance be pursued any further than death ?
yet, by your gracious patience, i will deliver a round truthful tale of my whole course of love, by what drugs, what charms, what invocation, and what mighty magic, because i am charged with such crimes, i won his daughter.
where are you taking me ?
why, how are you, general!
who calls hamlet?
and, for your life, let justice be blamed.
she’s still at the monastery ,  kneeling and praying for a happy marriage .
i’m sorry i hit you .
i long to be immortal .
i haven’t even heard a mouse squeak .
i don’t know ,  except they are busy with some phony guarantee .
the devil sings like a nightingale to haunt poor tom .
i’d obey even if she were my mother ten times over .
o, i was damned beneath all the depths of hell, and i proceeded on just grounds to this extremity.
if there is anyone in this assembly ,  any dear friend of caesar's ,  to him i say that brutus' love to caesar was no less than his love .
we will go in together .
i’m a carpenter ,  sir .
come ,  dromio ,  let’s go .
i wish he would change !
and you yourself will determine the sentence as you see fit ,  and impose the death penalty if you choose to ,  even if the criminal were my own son .
so think carefully about what you want ,  beautiful hermia .
never let such disagreements come between our souls !
my generosity to you is as limitless as the sea ,  and my love is as deep .
this is beyond weird .
in england this strange monster would be just like a man .
i fear the trust othello puts him in ,  because at some odd time of his infirmity ,  he will shake this island .
i remember the plan .
do whatever you want with it .
god be with you; take my job.
what, my lord?
will it please you to see the epilogue, or to hear an italian country dance between two of our company?
the lady has died because of the false accusations of me and my master .
since this fortune falls to you, be content and seek no other new one.
we’re wandering in a maze .
my wife !
yes, if messala will recommend me to you.
you have to wait for the appropriate time to let loose .
but ships are just fragile boards ,  and sailors are just men .
won’t we ,  sir andrew ?
o lamentable day!
there is nothing distinctive ,  nothing remarkable left in the world .
a devil like you could lead me to hell .
his legs aren’t great ,  but they’re alright .
not shafalus to procrus was so true .
is it likely that the lead one holds her picture ?
you liar ,  you respond better to the whip than to kindness !
young man ,  excuse me ,  how do i get to the jew’s ?
here comes the man himself .
i have lost the immortal part of myself ,  and what remains is beastly .
when it’s all over, you only look at an empty stool.
so don’t spend one night away from this house .
in torture, bassanio!
alas, what's the matter?
then, since that’s the story as it stands now, i think it best for you to marry the count.
i watched him very closely .
swear by this bottle how you came here—i escaped on a barrel of wine, which the sailors heaved overboard, by this bottle!
i’ll call on you before you go to bed ,  and tell you what i know .
i am sick and sullen .
is this true ,  nerissa ?
they didn’t come by you ?
i called my love false love; but what said he then?
well praised!
take that.
where is he ?
but who comes here ?
you drunken slave ,  i sent you for a rope ,  and i told you what to do with it .
behold!
my good qualities ,  my legal status as desdemona’s husband ,  and my innocence will protect me .
look in on me ,  and talk with me ,  or i’ll attack even without a weapon .
the enemy’s losses have been very great ,  pretty substantial .
come on ,  nerissa ,  i have work in hand that you don’t know about yet; we'll see our husbands before they think about us .
has romeo been killed ,  and is tybalt dead too ?
now ,  antony ,  our prayers have been answered .
don’t think i blame you .
what time is it ?
it was a brute part of him to kill so capital a stupid fellow there.
captain of our fairy band, helena is here at hand, and the youth mistaken by me pleading for her love; shall we watch what they’re doing?
into the air; and what seemed solid melted like breath into the wind .
it’s not craziness that i have spoken .
i am finished.
i shall keep the purpose of this good lesson as watchman to my heart .
yes, casca, tell us what has happened today that makes caesar look so sad.
well ,  what was yours ?
my friend stephano, let them know, please, within the house, that your mistress is at hand, and bring your music outside.
and still i wish but for the thing that i already have .
shut up .
i’ll meet you there .
you might have a great opportunity to give it to him right now .
this strong poison’s overpowering me .
stay you, good gentlemen.
no ,  good goose ,  don’t bite me .
why are you talking about robbery ?
you can’t speak about something you don’t feel .
come, bring him away.
i hope this explanation will stand as my excuse .
which ring did you give away ,  my lord ?
oh ,  i wish you weren’t ,  you poor ,  frightened soul .
what’s that ?
give him room .
i think it is ,  sir .
alas ,  she has nothing to say .
i guarantee it will.
it would’ve been better for you not to have been born at all than to displease me as you did .
i cannot  “ ok ,  ”  man and it is not very well .
she will purchase that peace with an everlasting war .
good - bye ,  great commander .
with all my heart my staff already know my mind ,  and will report to you and jessica in place of lord bassanio and myself .
no ,  you’d answer ,   “ the slaves are ours .  ”  and that’s just how i’m answering you .
i am bound to you forever.
captain macmorris ,  if you take my words in some way other than how they were meant ,  see ,  i’ll have to think you’re not treating me with the good will you ought to ,  see ,  since i am as good a man as yourself ,  both in the practice of war and in my country of origin and in other respects .
then i’ll look up ,  my sin is committed .
stand from the hearse ,  stand from the body .
aren’t you romeo ?
i’ll ask that again; for nothing can be wrong if she is well.
give me my veil .
so do i, my lord; they are entirely welcome.
we’ll do what you want us to ,  my lord .
go get money .
they can sit out there until they die of hunger and disease .
and if she starts to drop off ,  i’ll rant and yell until i wake her up .
with no toasts, you might as well stay home, because away from home, ceremony is the sauce to meat, getting together would be bare without it.
what a change this is!
what visions have i seen!
he says ,  for brutus' sake ,  he finds himself grateful to us all .
they mean to warn us here at philippi ,  answering us before we demand answers of them .
a fig !
yes, and mild, as he has said most knowledgeably.
you’ve been competing with this king for my daughter .
there’s no bravery in an unfair fight .
take this garment ,  put it on ,  and then come back here .
on thursday ,  sir ?
but i have known people who sleepwalked and weren’t guilty of anything .
i’ll keep my oath and patiently suffer through my anger .
when duncan is asleep, which should be soon since he is very tired from his day's hard journey, i will go to his two chamberlains with wine and carousing so their memory, the guardian of the brain, will be a wisp of smoke, and the tired brain won’t be able to think clearly.
you’d better shut up !
i know what i’ll do .
yes ,  with a heart as willing as slavery was ever willing of freedom: here's my hand .
your wives ,  your daughters ,  your old women ,  and your young maids together could not satisfy my lust .
our regiments are full to the brim; our cause is ready .
hastings and edward’s children ,  rivers and grey ,  holy king henry and your fine son edward ,  vaughan ,  and all who have died from underhanded ,  corrupt ,  fiendish injustice ,  if your angry souls are witnessing this moment through the clouds ,  enjoy the revenge—laugh at my ruin !
knowing how much i loved my books ,  he gave me some books from my library that i value more than my dukedom .
isn’t he getting funnier ?
i’m not angry that you’re my friend; as for what you’re persuading me to do ,  i have some plans .
what is the cause ,  laertes ,  that your rebellion looks so huge ?
what ,  my dear lord ?
have her send it to me .
it’s too late to go to bed now .
if the jew cuts deep enough ,  i’ll pay it instantly with all my heart .
to relate the details would be ,  on the numbers of these murdered deer ,  to add to your own death .
i’ll touch the point of my sword with this poison so that, if i touch him slightly, it will kill him.
me neither .
most high, most mighty, and most powerful caesar, metellus cimber falls before you most humbly.
if knowing what to do were as easy as knowing what was good to do, chapels would have been churches, and poor men's cottages would have been princes' palaces.
look how the moon seems to be sleeping with its lover and can’t be awoken !
perhaps you have learned it without book.
it’s a pity, what hateful sin it is in me to be ashamed to be my father's child!
but let her live .
don’t tell me ,  friar ,  that you heard about this ,  unless you can tell me how i can prevent it .
didn’t you hear their shouts ?
i wonder why they are here together.
but i’m sorry—i’m not allowed to let you visit them .
bless your five senses !
will money buy them ?
the devil damn you black, you cream-faced loon!
must i speak now ?
if she punishes you ,  master ,  she’s sure to punish me .
can such things be, that can overcome us like a summer's cloud, without puzzling us?
if so ,  when it’s day ,  where are you going to find a cave dark enough to hide your monstrous face ?
how the sailing ship leaves her native port like a youngster or a spendthrift hugged and embraced by the prostitute wind!
well, tell me now about the lady, the one you swore to make a secret trip to, the one you promised to tell me about today?
how can i help you ?
i pray that god will let me learn from women like that—not to follow their bad example ,  but to avoid it !
dear macduff ,  i beg you ,  tell us you were lying and say it isn’t so .
almost the middle of the night .
do we know this face or not ?
how is the world going now ,  sir ?
what my man say, when my soul was tossing and turning and i didn’t pay attention to him as we rode?
your speech is more refined than i would expect in such a remote place as this .
you mock me ,  sir .
this is old ninny's tomb.
i'll bring you to him .
why, sir, i’m a carpenter.
i think it was to see my mother's wedding .
give me some wine, fill my cup full.
damn ,  a risky business .
by mary, i will.
a lioness gave birth in the streets ,  and graves cracked open and thrust out their dead .
i’m left with nothing to do in this weak ,  idle peacetime ,  unless i want to look at my lumpy shadow in the sun and sing about
how green !
never .
i can only walk a little way with you ,  since i’m waiting here .
where's romeo's man ?
oh god !
captain macmorris ,  when we have more leisure ,  see ,  i will be so bold as to show you i know about the practice of warfare ,  and that’s that .
oh no ,  my reasons are deep and as permanent as death .
morning’s here .
we’re overjoyed to see you sane again .
test me ,  and i will re - word the problem ,  which madness would run away from .
get up ,  get up ,  and look at this image of doomsday !
really ,  my lord ,  i don’t know what to make of it ,  but she loves him with such a passion that it’s past all understanding .
he’s made me a little sore ,  i’ll admit .
if you’re the ones setting my daughters against me ,  don’t let me be foolish enough to take it lying down .
if we do meet again ,  why ,  we’ll smile; if not ,  why ,  then this parting was the right thing to do .
you will lose this wager ,  my lord .
and the boys are winning so far ?
he said he was going to buy me a necklace ,  but i never saw it .
what do you say?
a gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk, and will speak more in a minute than you think should do for a month.
but even if i thought you were right ,  it doesn’t matter .
they can’t move till you release them .
i learned it in england ,  where they have a talent for drinking .
as for lord hamlet ,  only believe so much about him ,  that he is young ,  and he may walk on a higher mountain than may be given you .
the games are done and caesar is returning .
and juliet’s just as much in love as he ,  but she has even less opportunity to meet her lover .
not so sick ,  my lord ,  as she is troubled with a number of illusions ,  that keep her from resting .
this is her very disguise, and, upon my life, fast asleep.
how long is it now to the middle of july?
have more than you show ,  speak less than you know ,  lend less than you owe .
please stand up !
it is almost morning ,  and i am still sure you are not totally satisfied about these events full .
now ,  death ,  you can boast that you have an incomparable girl in your possession .
oh ,  no .
what quality is that ,  my lord ?
my legs may be yellow ,  but i don’t feel blue .
i know where she is and ,  if you don’t mind ,  i will set her before you tomorrow ,  whole and unharmed .
thirty ships .
what does the lead box say ?
those that call you hobgoblin, and sweet puck, you do their work, and they shall have good luck.
then i wish you were so honest a man .
confess yourself to heaven ,  repent what's past ,  avoid what is to come ,  and don’t spread fertilizer on the weeds ,  to make them more rotten .
didn’t you hear their shouts ?
why do you keep to yourself ,  making the worst imaginings your companions ,  thinking those thoughts which should indeed have died with the dead ones you’re thinking about ?
that it should come to this!
is this not more than our imaginations ?
i’ll follow after you .
why didn’t you say  “ the swift steps ”  of time instead of the  “ lazy foot ”  ?
listen to me patiently .
master malvolio ?
summertime in verona has no flower as fine as him .
i hear it now overhead .
i need to get othello’s things from the ship .
when i was with him, i heard him swear to tubal and to chus, his countrymen, that he would rather have antonio's flesh than twenty times the value of the sum that he owed him; and i know, my lord, if law, authority, and power, don’t deny him, it will go hard with poor antonio.
as god is my witness ,  you know you’re mine .
tell me why ,  if you can .
you have broken my heart .
a norman ,  was it ?
you won’t make a liar out of me.
if i had the mind to think about all this, and if i lacked the mind to see that such a thing could happen, wouldn’t it make me sad?
and he did bid us to follow him to the temple ,  didn’t he ?
it’s even so true that we let our finger ache and it infects our other healthful members, even to the point of pain.
come now; what plays, what dances shall we have, to pass the three hours between our after-supper and bed-time?
henry lord scroop of masham ,  i arrest you for high treason .
in that and all things, we will show our duty.
look ,  love ,  see how devoted i am ?
are you sebastian ?
now ,  titania ,  wake up ,  my sweet queen .
is he alone ?
get your costumes together; good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your shoes; meet presently at the palace; every man look over his part; for the short and the long of it is, they want to see our play.
move the plates !
there lies the man slain by young romeo ,  that killed your kinsman ,  brave mercutio .
wash your hands .
i’ve heard many of the noblest romans—next to immortal caesar—speaking of you ,  complaining of the tyranny of today’s government ,  and wishing that your eyes were working better .
o ,  the sun shall never see that tomorrow !
but it’s not important.
all right then .
why ,  mistress ,  my master is as angry as a bull with horns .
will my daughter be a good musician ,  do you think ?
what, did my daughter go to friar lawrence?
i saw a thousand shipwrecks ,  a thousand men whom fish had gnawed to the bone ,  huge anchors ,  chunks of gold ,  heaps of pearls ,  and precious jewels—all scattered on the bottom of the sea .
and let us swear to our resolution .
you are very trinculo indeed !
your cheeks are too flushed for me to believe that was a fake faint .
let this evil hour stand forever cursed in the calendar !
for god's love, let me hear what you have to say.
if i can’t do that ,  i can at least make the moor so jealous that he can’t think straight .
this same skull, sir, was yorick's skull, the king's jester.
and you’ve come at a good time ,  so you can convey my greetings to the senators and tell them i won’t come today .
well; then i shall see you again ?
let their beds be made as soft as yours, and let their palates be seasoned with such rich meats?
what it is, my caius, i’ll tell you, as we are walking, as to whom it must be done.
one of you speak for both of you.
you do their work for them and give them good luck .
you shall not put your seal to such a promise to pay for me; i’d rather live in my poverty .
when was it she last walked?
that’s excellent .
if she admits she wanted this ,  then i won’t blame othello . —come here ,  my child .
look here, here he is, disfigured, as you can see, by traitors.
i have neither cleverness nor rhetorical skill nor the authority nor gesture nor eloquence nor the power of speech to stir men up .
a prison like that would give me enough liberty .
come, come; cut thread and thrum; quail, rush, conclude, and quell!
so again ,  goodnight .
and then he’ll … he’ll … wait ,  what was i about to say ?
those tears will bring blessings to you .
a bright day brings out the black, poison snake, and that means we must walk carefully.
the queen drinks to your good luck and happiness ,  hamlet .
he did ,  and he snatched my ring right off my finger .
she was too attached to her filthy marriage ever to do a thing like that !
or else mismatched in terms of years;— oh spite!
give me your hand ,  sir .
okay ,  bring on the play .
didn’t i deserve anything more than a fool’s head ?
i’ve never seen such a monster .
her name ,  that was as fresh as diana's face ,  is now as grimy and black as my own face .
i have a wife i love .
i wish i might only see that man again!
dighton and forrest ,  whom i hired to perform the butchery ,  are used to killing people ,  the bloody dogs .
i beg your pardon ,  sirs . —please tell me your name ,  sir ?
i never heard such gallant scolding; because ,  besides the groves ,  the skies ,  the fountains ,  every region near seemed to have one mutual cry .
the reason i think he’s insane ,  besides the way he just acted ,  is that he told a senseless story over lunch about being locked out of his own house .
help ,  help !
my message is not for anyone else to hear ,  my lady .
well ,  all of these should be in the lantern ,  because they’re all in the moon .
here's such a choice !
the time and my intents are savage and wild, so much ore fierce and more determined than hungry tigers or the roaring sea.
if i live to be as old as sibylla the witch ,  i’ll die as pure as diana the goddess of purity ,  unless i am obtained by the letter of my father's will .
let it be so .
go, but do it.
regan ,  is that what you said ?
why are you curious ,  iago ?
if i were so easy to quarrel as you are ,  any man should buy the inherited estate of my life for an hour and a quarter .
as a friend .
my god ,  they’ve given me a lot to drink .
passion !
everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged .
her bridegroom is here .
if he breaks the peace ,  he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling .
i have done no more to caesar than you shall do to brutus .
what if a rat troubles my house ,  and i am happy to give ten thousand dollars to have it captured ?
who’s dead ?
no ,  sir ,  i live by the church .
he’s so flighty in his old age ,  as we keep noticing .
he does well to praise himself ,  because no one else will praise him .
my stomach’s a little upset .
no .
problems with no solutions should not be thought about.
o heat ,  dry up my brains !
there were many even more memorable feasts .
a lover that kills himself most gallantly for love .
i wish you could!
they show their bloody heralds of battle ,  and something must be done immediately .
as you were on land .
madam ,  we have to go: the prince ,  the count ,  signior benedick ,  don john ,  and all the gentlemen of the town have come to bring you to church .
therefore ,  i beg your highness ,  pardon me .
oh ,  yes i am ,  father .
will you still provoke me?
that same cowardly giant - like roast beef has devoured many people from your family .
i don’t doubt your wisdom .
come forward and speak .
i sent him away ,  and gave him a good excuse for your fit; i told him to come back soon and speak here with me; which he promised to do .
well then, it now appears you need my help; come on, then; you come to me, and you say “'shylock, we would have money.” you say so: you that spit on my beard, and kick me as you spurn a strange dog on your doorstep; money is what you ask for.
please wait until i finish .
why ,  it is a loving and a fair reply .
come in, tailor; here you may roast your goose.
heavens shield lysander ,  if they really mean to fight !
he’s slain .
i must wake her up.
why ,  the one that the moor first gave to desdemona; the one that you asked me so often to steal .
from hamlet!
it’s not okay !
then we can let this ambitious tyrant continue unchallenged until each of us is killed at his whim .
knock at the gate ?
knock .
then i have offended none .
the thane of cawdor has lost what the noble macbeth has won .
are you okay, my love?
let’s be sacrificers but not butchers ,  caius .
o ,  by whom ?
do you see this, o god?
so be calm .
then my children will probably be illegitimate .
of honorable status are you both; and it’s a pity that you lived at odds so long .
there's comfort in that.
we’re to be married on sunday .
your hands are quicker than mine for a fight; my legs are longer ,  though ,  to run away .
we’d find that he was a dangerous plotter .
if it were ,  you would find me such an ordinary king that you would think i’d sold my farm to buy my crown .
this is no time to play.
aren’t the others waiting for me ,  cinna ?
you want me to stop in my tale against the hair.
good prince ,  say something !
she’s talking ,  but she’s not saying anything .
peace, you mumbling fool!
you are building your nest in
give me your hand ,  roderigo .
pay attention ,  bassanio ,  the devil can cite scripture for his purpose .
keep me balanced and sane .
you’re better off because of your friends .
lucilius and titinius, ask the commanders to prepare to pitch tents for their troops tonight.
his absence ,  sir ,  means he didn’t keep his promise .
have a safe trip .
i shall grow jealous of you shortly ,  launcelot ,  if you thus get my wife into corners .
he’s dressed like a freak ,  a total freak ,  and not at all like a proper footman or a gentleman’s valet .
doesn’t benedick deserve as much luck with a mate as he would have with beatrice ?
he poured a pint of rhine wine on my head once.
she stood trembling ,  then suddenly dropped dead .
two of both kinds makes four .
are any ships leaving tonight ?
by mary, how?
ho ,  ho ,  ho ,  ho !
by this token ,  you’ll be admitted to their cell .
then you'll buy them to sell again .
did you say caesar fainted ?
that which we call a rose would smell as sweet if it had any other name.
but ,  really ,  sir ,  we have taken a holiday to see caesar and to rejoice in his triumph .
why have you become so rude ?
you don’t know what you’re doing!
will you be committed to my hopes ,  if i depend on you ?
what do you mean by this haunting of me?
i'll send a messenger to someone in mantua ,  where that same banished runaway lives ,  and he shall give him such an unusual vial of medicine that he will soon keep tybalt company ,  and then i hope you’ll be satisfied .
between who?
it’s unbelievable .
what's the newest grief?
and when she speaks, isn’t it a call to love?
do it well ,  and then leave us .
give us a smile .
i shouldn’t make you do your duty past your strength; i know young bloods look for time of rest .
cassio !
you are only a soldier .
do you really speak like such a gentleman ?
his face will make the heavens so beautiful that the world will fall in love with the night and forget about the garish sun .
i’m not sleepy at all .
remember you !
you come with me ,  uncle of exeter .
i hope you go senile soon ,  sir ,  so you can become a more foolish fool !
oh ,  sir ,  the problem goes far deeper than you realize .
i gave my lover a ring and made him swear never to lose it or give it away .
my hands are the same color as yours ,  only i would be ashamed to have such a white heart .
we would have desired your good advice ,  which still has been both serious and favorable ,  in this day's council ,  but we'll do it tomorrow .
this forest doesn’t seem deserted when you’re here ,  because you are all the world to me .
you all saw that ,  on the feast of the priest lupercus ,  i presented a kingly crown to him three times ,  which he refused three times .
and she breathed such life with her kisses on my lips, that i was brought back to life, and i was an emperor.
i’ll be here again ,  even with a thought .
not someone who doesn’t share that disposition ,  meaning mark antony .
i work for as good a man as you do .
you stupid cop ,  stop your violence !
go and beg her.
i thought i was ,  and i thought i had , —but a man is only a mended fool ,  if he will offer to say what i thought i had .
you can order no more than she can beg; your threats have no more strength than her weak prayers.— helena, i love you; by my life i do; i swear, by that which i will lose for you, to prove him a liar that says i don’t love you.
you may do whatever you want in the world .
make me believe it ?
it’s not safe to go near them till we get more help .
because from his bold words ,  and because he didn’t go to the tyrant's feast ,  i hear ,  macduff lives in disgrace .
let me see now ,  to get his place ,  and to congratulate myself in double trickery ,  how ,  how ?
humble as i am ,  i represent antony .
where ?
i have said it.
quiet !
i know you two are rival enemies; how does this gentle concord in the world come about, that hatred is so far from jealousy that you can sleep without fear?
you both know banquo was your enemy .
tell me .
you’re wise !
tell me the truth .
lord hamlet !
listen !
beauty's officer is still red on your lips and in your cheeks ,  and death's pale flag is not yet planted there .
sometime she drives over a soldier's neck, and then he dreams of cutting foreign throats, of infractions , sneak attacks, spanish swords, of safety five fathoms deep in the sea; and then soon he hears drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes; and, being thus frightened, swears a prayer or two, and sleeps again.
my freedom .
be at ease .
should we now dirty our fingers with lowly bribes and sell the mighty offices that we hold for whatever money we can get our hands on ?
why then, lead on.
you are kind .
when a majestic king starts acting silly ,  then it’s my duty to be blunt .
help!
out ,  loathed medicine !
but if you had to say something nice about me ,  what would you say ?
what does he say about brutus?
how low we can fall ,  horatio .
god will protect me .
here ,  you goddamn incest - breeding danish murderer ,  drink this .
i bother you too much ,  but you’re willing .
fetch me my rapier ,  boy .
what can i do for you?
how goes it now ?
it never entered my mind to know more.
you mean i should groan and tell you ?
this disease is beyond my practice .
put on my crown .
if not ,  i’ll challenge you to a duel .
we’ll give you an answer tomorrow .
he wants to be crowned .
we have lost a major portion of the world through utter foolishness .
follow !
do you want me to lie ,  madam ?
i’ll have none of it .
i’ll meet it if it’s the last thing i do .
wake when some vile thing is near.
believe me ,  i’d rather have lost a purse full of gold coins .
i thought i had escaped from the tower and was on a ship to france with my brother richard ,  who persuaded me to leave my cabin and walk on deck with him .
listen ,  listen !
we are attacked by ghosts.
shame on you !
ambassadors of harry ,  king of england ,  request a hearing with your majesty .
who’s his lieutenant ,  do you know ?
good laertes ,  if you desire to know the circumstances of your dear father's death ,  is it written in your revenge that ,  in the gambling ,  you will draw both friend and foe ,  winner and loser ?
give me the goblets .
i have words to speak into your ear will make you speechless, but are they much too light for the heart of the matter.
your husband .
here's a skull now.
who here is so vile that he doesn’t love his country ?
come ,  what does romeo say ?
if you are mine, i'll give you to my friend; if you aren’t, go hang yourself, beg, starve, die in the streets, because, by my soul, i'll never acknowledge you exist, and you will cut off from your inheritance.
what did they do wrong ?
and hippolyta .
o nature, what did you have to do in hell when you sheltered the spirit of a fiend in a deadly paradise of such sweet flesh?
are you going to get me in trouble ?
however ,  i’ll do what i can for you .
by the moon and stars !
i’ll go to him .
the lack of time and the risk i’m under will have to keep us from bonding and catching up on each other’s news the way we usually would after not seeing each other for so long .
revenge , —go , —find , —burn , —fire , —kill , —slay , — don’t let a traitor live !
i put it in the pocket of my nightgown .
even so?
i like your new wig and headdress ,  though i’d like it more if the hair were a shade browner .
and ,  england ,  if you hold my love at anything ,  as my great power may give you some sense ,  since your scar still looks raw and red after the danish sword ,  and your open fear pays homage to us ,  you might not view our sovereign process coldly ,  which gives you full power ,  by letters testifying to that effect ,  the present death of hamlet .
the one that doesn’t work has the more delicate sense.
he insisted on leaving this ring with me whether i wanted it or not .
if they see you ,  they’ll murder you .
did you hear this ,  gonzalo ?
sir, i will walk here in the hall.
yes ,  just now ,  my lord .
this damned witch sycorax was kicked out of algiers for various witching crimes too terrible for humans to hear about .
what do you want to see?
have you forgotten her ?
horatio ,  when you read this ,  give these fellows some way to talk to the king .
out ,  you bag of garbage !
i will find the time to cry for you ,  cassius ,  i’ll find the time .
we’re wasting time here .
oh ,  darling orlando ,  it’s so hard to see you wearing your heart in a sling .
harder ,  harder .
go ,  villain ,  get a doctor .
if you hang around me for two more years ,  you’ll forget the sound of your own voice .
well ,  girl ,  you’re weeping not for his death as much as for the fact that the villain who killed him is still alive .
a pity that it should be so!
in understanding ,  how like a god !
two or three more lords and ladies have been married too .
the phrase would be more german to the matter if we could carry cannons by our sides.
did you and he agree to cassio's death?
why do you look so pale?
stop the burial a while ,  until i hold her once more in mine arms .
my eyes itch; does that predict tears ?
less than an ace ,  man; for he is dead; he is nothing .
which of us are you referring to ?
o, horrible!
goodbye .
no, caesar doesn’t have it; but you, and i, and honest casca, we have epilepsy.
i beg you all ,  stand up .
come ,  for the third ,  laertes .
who do you think you are coming in here armed ?
he’s welcome too.
she thanked me and told me that if a friend of mine had a story like mine to tell ,  she’d fall in love with him .
will he tell us what this show meant?
what ,  hello !
listen to me.
swearing is for priests ,  cowards ,  overly cautious men ,  feeble old people ,  and those long - suffering weaklings who welcome abuse .
juno sings her blessings on you .
my husband!
yes ,  by heaven ,  my lord .
if our secret’s known ,  either caesar or i will die ,  for i’ll kill myself .
oh ,  eastern star !
well done!
i’ll tell you all about my meetings ,  all the reasons for my sad brows .
it’s over here .
mustardseed .
beware the ides of march .
my lord ?
stephano!
let me lick your shoe .
the boy gives the warning something is approaching .
oh ,  you bloody prison ,  fatal and threatening to noble lords !
what do you mean?
what’s the matter ?
i wish i was your bird .
if i’m telling the truth like a fool in saying all this ,  whip the first person who thinks i sound foolish .
who else ?
you’re a liar !
for shame, for shame!
my cousin westmoreland ?
for what, please tell me?
are you a man ?
what is this blood that stains the stony entrance of this tomb ?
my pulse does temperately keep time like yours ,  and is just as healthful as yours .
six barbary horses ,  six french swords with accessories ,  and three imaginatively designed carriages—sounds like a french bet against the danish .
but it doesn’t matter .
is your master coming ?
i’ve been stripped of everything ,  betrayed .
those that are married already, all but one, shall live, the rest stay the same.
i am very reluctant to go; there is some ill disturbing my rest, because i dreamt of moneybags tonight.
you won’t enjoy it much ,  i can tell you ,  the odds are so against this young man .
is the prince’s punishment any less awful than doomsday ?
beware the ides of march.
most heartily i beg the court to give the judgment .
he was my friend ,  he was faithful and just to me .
what likelihood ?
who’s calling me ?
i wish it were day !
although i hate her, i'll not harm her like that.
you can do it, i say.
i’m not sorry ,  either .
by running away?
her once - trimmed hedges ,  like prisoners with wild ,  untended hair ,  put forth unruly twigs .
o iago, the pity of it, iago!
no gentlemen ,  don’t get ready to go now .
madam, what should i do?
good afternoon ,  my dear lord !
nor i neither by this heavenly light; i might do it as well in the dark.
nine or ten times i wanted to stab him under the ribs .
he’s been seen there many mornings ,  crying tears that add drops to the morning dew and making a cloudy day cloudier with his sighs .
damn your voice, you loud, cursing, selfish dog!
we’ll follow you .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
and as long as she’s herself—wise ,  beautiful ,  and faithful—she’ll always have a place in my heart .
alas ,  good gentleman !
the next hailstone should hit caesarion ,  until one by one all my children ,  and every one of my brave egyptians ,  are killed by the dissolving of this pellet storm and lie unburied ,  covered by gnats and flies .
my lady !
with anger ,  with fever ,  or with hunger ,  sure ,  my friend ,  but never sick with love .
be patient with me ,  good boy ,  i’m very forgetful .
their words are natural breath ,  but ,  however you have been jostled out of your senses ,  know for certain that i am prospero ,  and that very duke who was thrown out of milan ,  who most strangely landed on this shore ,  where you were wrecked ,  to be the lord of it .
romeo, good night.
that huge black cloud over there looks like a filthy liquor jug that’s about to pour out its contents .
and this may help to support other proofs that look questionable .
i say, amen, gonzalo!
round enough to be unattractive .
give me access to them ,  and soon you won’t have to worry about them anymore .
ah, what an unlucky hour is guilty of this lamentable event!
when you begged to stay ,  that was the time for words .
he will ,  sir ,  if he wants to .
i hope i never achieve success if i don’t feel some of your heartbroken grief right now .
you were one of his favorites .
but my eyes ,  which i’ve darted at you ,  haven’t even left a mark .
well ,  we march on ,  to give obedience where it is truly owed .
help!
why ?
we must remember the gravity of this sad day .
if he had been forgotten, it would have been a gap in our great feast, and unbecoming to us.
go back again ,  slave ,  and bring him home .
what does caesar want ?
when beggars die there are no comets in the sky .
i have often led you ,  now you must carry me ,  my good friends—and take my thanks for everything .
adieu.
that’s cowardly and womanish .
well ,  the point is ,  he’s lost a ship .
but in this way ,  grief and comfort appear together .
i knew your father .
watch him .
no ,  i am the very small spot of courtesy .
i have them ready .
so the cooks who can’t lick their fingers aren’t hired .
come, hold your peace.
you turn my eyes into my very soul, and there i see such black and grainy spots as will not leave their color.
has he ever tested out these ideas on you before ?
he’s very bright .
oh, how ripe your lips are, those kissing cherries grow tempting!
stop ,  take this letter .
she unfaithful with cassio!
now he denies it a bit ,  and tries to laugh it off .
pain ,  yes indeed .
three or four women near me cried ,   “ alas ,  good soul !  ”  and forgave him with all their hearts .
my hard - working servant ,  ariel !
give me my fan ,  peter .
why ,  he that spends twenty years fearing death cuts twenty years off his life .
i will play the swan, and die in music.
take our good meaning, for our judgment sits five times more in that sense, than once in our five wits.
every one of us is a criminal .
let's have no more of this; let's to our affairs.
here's fine turnaround, if we were able to see it.
you’ve humiliated him ,  lady: you’ve put him down .
hail !
and yet i would have made her happy had our luck not been so bad .
i never saw her till now .
macbeth !
help me out of here ,  quickly !
is it the king ?
what a farce !
by this sword ,  i’ll kill whichever one of you makes the first thrust .
your lily - white lips ,  your cherry - red nose ,  and your buttercup - yellow cheeks are gone ,  gone forever .
your eyes look like they’ve sunk into your head .
still a fountain ,  girl ?
i, not remembering how i cried out then, will cry it out all over again: it is a moment that makes my eyes cry.
she’s shut inside a dead man’s tomb !
go on ,  my loving lord .
i’d have stayed until i had made you happy, if worthier friends hadn’t stopped me.
cruel ,  cruel news !
welcome, gentle day!
o, i wish you were of the same mind as i am!
go away ,  and stand over there .
yes ,  or to wear cosmetics ?
but never mind .
i’ll tell you more later about when and where we met ,  how we fell in love ,  and how we exchanged promises ,  but now i’m begging you: please ,  agree to marry us today .
he is fortifying his castle at dunsinane with heavy defenses .
my friend antonio ,  all i can say is thank you .
can someone fall in love this quickly ?
what’s that trumpet ?
o slave !
how shall we spend the lazy time, if not with some delight?
the queen ,  my lord ,  is dead .
we’ve advanced too far .
oh well ,  god’s in charge ,  and some people have to go to heaven ,  while other people have to go to hell .
a tiny spot of evil casts doubt on their good qualities and ruins their reputations .
dear friends ,  let’s go to bed .
what can you discern at sea from the cape?
they shall speak more ,  for now i am determined to know the worst by the worst means .
let’s not leave him out .
hold the friar too .
what is a man ,  if his chief good and use of his time is only to sleep and eat ?
o you public commoner!
i never did regret doing good, and i won’t now; because in companions that talk and waste the time together, whose souls bear an equal burden of love, there must be a sharing of things like proportion of limbs, manners, and spirit, which makes me think that this antonio, being the closest friend of my lord, must be like my lord.
two such opposed kings set up camp in man ,  as well as in herbs ,  grace and rude will; and where the worse human trait is predominant ,  the canker death eats up that plant very soon .
a very changeable rogue, having no further conscience than assuming the mere form of civil and humane behavior, for the better measure of his worth and very hidden loose affections?
is the worst well ?
i don’t believe that you deal justly with me.
doesn’t the sun shine palely down on them ,  as though in contempt ,  killing their fruit with frowns ?
i think he told me paris was going to marry juliet.
not if you go away ,  there isn’t .
i hope to god othello’s all right .
i was killed in the capitol .
that’s not necessary.
give me bianca for my inheritance .
and when you do— cassius ,  calm down .
it seems he has taken great care to please his wife .
i’ll tell you this ,  constable ,  my mistress has his own hair .
is it my lady mother ?
is this my prize ?
i am very happy he wasn’t at this fight.
so go ahead and have your terrifying fun .
let’s drink to our general !
that’s a lame answer .
o heavy burden!
yes ,  they are .
anything that’s mended is only patched up .
do you doubt i’ll write ?
what is this here?
what role did you play ?
if she is ,  you can sue me for lying to you .
as far as i know ,  sir .
nothing at all.
it’s wrong for the duke to do this .
i cannot believe that in her; she is full of very blessed qualities.
i’m sure i can answer for him—he doesn’t know any ,  either .
but they’re siding with a better wrestler than myself .
i therefore arrest and attack you as an abuser of the world ,  a practitioner of the forbidden and illegal arts .
he must do this ,  or i’ll recant the pardon i just delivered .
oh ,  he’s a gallant king !
give him this letter .
this is cinna .
i think he’ll carry this island home in his pocket and give it to his son like an apple .
he hasn’t told this to the king ,  has he ?
but oh ,  poor glou - cester !
i am very glad to see you, signior; welcome to cyprus.
here .
it is ,  my lord .
no ,  but listen to me: pardon this fault ,  and ,  by my soul ,  i swear i will never again break an oath made to you .
the moor himself is still at sea .
romeo is coming.
is it a free visit?
goodbye ,  good launcelot .
rest ,  rest ,  irritated spirit !
go get yourself a seat .
let playful people with light hearts dance .
yet we must not put the strong law on him.
this is exactly how she always looks ,  and—i swear it—she is fast asleep .
now ,  sir ,  her father thinks it’s dangerous that she gives in so much to her grief; and ,  in his wisdom ,  hurries our marriage to stop the flood of her tears ,  which ,  if she does too much crying by herself ,  may make her too depressed to function in society .
that’s definitely too old .
where is my page ?
he’s almost late .
what did you mean by not helping me ?
maybe some poison is still on them ,  to make me die by restoring me .
mistress ,  both the man and his master are possessed .
nothing ,  my lord .
people who are either too serious or too silly are awful .
come, sir, your forward thrust.
what use is mercy except to confront the face of offense?
hamlet comes back.
with what i get ,  i mean ,  as they do .
have you conspired ,  have you contrived with these men to bait me with this disgusting insult ?
what wife ?
who’s there ?
and so i thank you for your good counsel .
i have lived long enough .
only yesterday ,  the word of caesar might have stood against the world .
the answer ,  my dear ,  is that they didn’t dare ,  because the people of milan loved me too much .
i don’t think you can, because then you weren’t three years old yet.
but what see what see i ?
the more i pray, the less grace i have.
our master and mistress are looking for you .
are you always going to be like this ?
nothing but death shall stop me .
get up .
my dear portia ,  if you knew who i gave the ring to ,  for whose sake i gave the ring to him ,  why i gave it to him ,  and how unwilling i was to leave it when he wouldn’t accept anything but the ring ,  you wouldn’t be so angry .
again !
but ,  tell me ,  is young george stanley alive ?
if you insist on trying my patience any further ,  then take out your sword right now .
caesar’s speed defies belief .
if we actors have offended you, think about this,--and everything will be all right,--you have only dozed off here while these visions appeared.
here comes another jew .
he is as full of courage as of kindness ,  princely in both .
hail !
most formidable queen !
may god choose you to receive his grace .
if she refuses my proposal ,  i’ll tell her how much i’m looking forward to the announcement and the wedding .
those men that know the earth is full of faults .
by eight o’clock .
unkindness may do much ,  and his unkindness may kill my life ,  but never taint my love .
so go and put your stamp on the girl .
i do think scotland is sinking under macbeth’s oppression .
mr .  cobweb; good monsieur ,  get all your weapons in your hand and kill me a red - hipped humble - bee on the top of a thistle; and ,  good monsieur ,  bring me his honey - bag .
some god direct my judgment!
oh ,  i wish i were a man !
a solemn song ,  and the best comforter to an unsettled mind ,  cure for your brains ,  now useless ,  boiled inside your skull !
your shawl good, what!
the warships have sent a dozen messages tonight ,  one after the other ,  and many of the senators have been awakened and are at the duke’s already .
it’s my best option: i can’t afford to lose forty ducats .
but i’m ashamed to kiss ,  sir .
oh ,  that splendid caesar !
do you win ?
i really do believe your highness; and did it to provide opportunity to these gentlemen, who have similar common sense and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing.
bring us the letters .
they don’t want you to go out today .
let heaven and men and devils tell me to shut me up .
why ,  a bad action is just a wrong in this world ,  but when you’ve won the whole world ,  it’s a wrong in your own world ,  so you can make it right then .
then ,  i’ll get you ,  boy !
i ask that again because nothing can be wrong if she is well .
here, peter quince.
how are you ,  good lord ?
what ?
young boys and girls are equal to men .
thieves !
i got it from him .
bad luck ,  bad luck ?
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
now i know better .
these tedious old fools !
please ,  spare me .
so stop hoping and wondering what i mean .
you mean their  cut off their heads ,  take their maidenheads—whatever .
it is ,  my lord .
until then ,  think about the well - being of rome .
think on your sins.
even if you had your eyes ,  you still might not recognize me .
i could find it in my heart to beat him,— come, kiss.
he wouldn’t be a lion if romans weren’t female deer.
tell antony ,  brutus is taken .
here ,  take this piece of jewelry .
how unfortunate to meet you by moonlight ,  proud titania .
the first time we see the world as newborns ,  we cry and scream .
madam ,  i’d better leave now .
moody?
i never saw my father in my life .
o lord ,  i could have stayed here all the night to hear good counsel .
if you won’t listen to reason ,  i’ll have to die .
now he’ll sit under a medlar tree ,  and wish his mistress were that kind of fruit as maids call medlars when they laugh alone .
that gallant spirit has gone into the clouds, which saw an untimely death here on earth.
that’s a good point .
watch it, control your tongue.
go on .
if you ever loved your poor dear father— oh god !
just let me follow behind you ,  even though i’m not good enough for you .
i do ,  mark antony .
when, at my pleasure, i had teased her, and she, calmly, begged my patience, i asked her for the indian child, which she gave me right away, and sent her fairy to carry him to my private place in fairy-land.
good morning ,  old sir thomas erpingham !
take time to think about it; and, by the next new moon,— the wedding day of my love and me, for the everlasting bond of fellowship,— on that day either prepare to die because you have disobeyed your father's will; or else marry demetrius, as your father wants you to; or accept the austerity and single life of a nun.
lead the way .
how are you and your master getting along ?
there are some harsh contents in that letter that steal the color from bassanio's cheeks: some dear friend is dead ,  or nothing else in the world could change the constitution so much of any constant man .
your royal father was a most sainted king ,  the queen that bore you ,  oftener upon her knees than on her feet ,  died every day she lived .
if i could make things better by lying ,  i’d deny it .
this is othello's ensign, as i take it.
it’s a capital offense for anyone from mantua to come to padua .
i think she will be ruled by me in all respects ,  no more ,  i don’t doubt it .
in what ,  my dear lord ?
and immediately come yourselves and bring messala with you to us .
this chatter is no cure for my toothache .
most noble caesar !
you wronged yourself to write me letters in such a case .
to tell you that you’ll see me at philippi .
who, me?
no one marries the second without killing the first love .
but as a gentleman and a soldier he’s promised me he won’t hurt you .
you dance ,  you walk ,  and you whisper and nickname animals ,  and make your looseness your ignorance .
now he urges him to tell it again.
the source from which your royal blood comes has been stopped .
can i have a word with you ?
please— chiefly that i might say it in my prayers— what is your name?
if it pleases you ,  your highness ,  why don’t you sit with us and grace us with your royal company ?
calling death banishment ,  you cut my head off with a golden axe ,  and smile on the stroke that murders me .
didn’t you talk to it ?
i'll bet fourteen of my teeth ,  and yet ,  to tell the truth ,  i’ve only got four ,  she is not fourteen .
go quickly to high fortune !
who has put in ?
yes ,  my good lord .
drinks.
what would you have with me ?
where’s the king ?
you’ll get there two days before me .
but, on.
in any other case, he is.
how dare    what ,  is the man crazy ?
good night ,  good night .
i got it from you—i never said i didn’t .
besides ,  according to the french historians ,  king pepin ,  who deposed childeric ,  based his own claim to the crown of france on his descent from blithild ,  the daughter of king clothair .
did you come from padua, from bellario?
how well my comfort is revived by this !
isn’t he jealous?
is it his habit ?
madam, although i’m saying it in front of you, you have a noble and a true understanding of godlike friendship, which appears most strongly in your behaving like this in the absence of your lord.
the prince and claudio are hurrying this way .
now i’ll ask cassio about bianca ,  a prostitute who sells her body for food and clothes .
all the perfumes of arabia will not sweeten this little hand.
come on in ,  tailor .
and here’s my mistress ,  titania .
oh ,  help !
give me your hand ,  kate .
good morning to you .
sweet men ,  come to him .
i have news for you about the prince’s punishment .
god forbid !
i’m arresting you as a criminal .
or if you haven’t broken away from human company ,  as my feelings now lead me to do ,  you haven’t loved .
it’s true .
not in the legions of horrid hell can come a devil more damned in evils to top macbeth.
peace, oh!
michael ,  good night .
me too .
oh buckingham ,  now i’m going to test to see if you’re truly made of gold .
then the liars are fools ,  for there are enough liars in the world to beat up the honest men and hang them .
i’m sure it would’ve, i’m sure it would’ve.
as freely ,  son ,  as god gave her to me .
i humbly thank you .
please let me be your servant so i can be with you .
such welcome and unwelcome things at once are hard to reconcile.
my countrymen— silence !
he is in love with hero .
if you are valiant ,  as ,  they say ,  corrupt men being in love have a nobility in their natures that is more than natural to them ,  listen to me .
what, ho!
i beg for justice ,  which you ,  prince ,  must give; romeo killed tybalt .
in order to find a mother and a brother ,  i too have lost myself ,  unhappily .
how poor are they who have no patience !
what man is that ?
by my count i was your mother pretty close to the age that you are now .
and don’t we have passions ,  and a taste for fun ,  and weaknesses ,  just like men ?
heaven truly knows that you are as false as hell .
you said those exact things to me back in the marketplace .
i'll go to my book; because still, before supper time, i must complete a lot of business relating to these two.
it’s wrong ,  and i’m starting to realize i’m being cheated !
do you intend to sink us ?
look ,  here comes helena .
i was always honest with you ,  and so now ,  i speak my annoyance over the matter; so be cheerful ,  because i honestly think you are dammed .
three months from twelve; then let me see the rate .
what stops?
no ,  he did not .
i hear that you must, and nothing can prevent it, be married to this count on next thursday.
but i should kill you with much cherishing .
in the name of something holy ,  sir ,  why stand you here in this strange stare ?
by my holy order, i thought your disposition was of a better temper.
o ,  i have lost my reputation !
why, man, they did make love to this job.
you couldn’t find a third like these two unless the devil himself turned into a jew .
if i don’t answer ,  perhaps you’ll think i’m accepting the heavy responsibility you foolishly want to impose on me .
what did you think about that french lord ,  monsieur le bon ?
nurse?
i never felt it until now—two thousand ducats in that diamond ,  and other precious ,  precious jewels !
merciful god !
i said  “ your husband .  ” —do you understand that word ?
heaven forgive you for it !
very well ,  my supreme lord—that’s what i have to call you now .
difficult to question, but, when we ask for something, he is most free in his reply.
no ,  please ,  speak seriously .
the new challenge scared them about as much as sparrows frighten eagles ,  or rabbits frighten a lion .
good morning ,  benedick .
varro and claudius!
no ,  you won’t die yourself ,  but only by proxy .
should we go inside ?
find some occasion to make cassio angry, either by speaking too loud, or insulting his discipline, or from whatever reason you please, which might be suggested by what’s happening at the time.
i will be on the right hand; you keep to the left .
orlando ?
sailors ,  my lord ,  they say ,  i didn’t see them .
o ,  that's an honest fellow .
if i prove her unfaithful ,  although that her leashes were my dear heartstrings ,  i'd suddenly go away ,  and let her follow the wind to plunder fortune .
when such a great man dies there should be a thunderclap .
o ,  but she'll keep her word .
i will .
haven’t you read ,  roderigo ,  of some such thing ?
what i’m saying is ,  your jealousy has pushed your husband away from his sanity .
yes ,  very much like a whale .
what do you say ,  hugh rebeck ?
my good lord, what is your cause of your problem?
sir ,  let’s get to the point .
i thought that thing you’re talking about was a man .
i’ll do most of the drinking for you .
you do the same ,  wherever the crowds are thick .
was there ever a book containing such vile matter so beautifully bound ?
and in public too .
signior benedick served well in the war ,  my lady .
these child actors are now in fashion ,  and they’ve so overtaken the public theaters that society types hardly come at all ,  they’re so afraid of being mocked by the playwrights who write for the boys .
i couldn’t deliver it ,  so here it is again ,  i couldn’t even get a messenger to bring it back to you ,  they were so afraid of getting infected with the plague .
can you ask about him and be satisfied by the reports?
what do these noisy storms care about the name of king?
benedick and beatrice have been waging a war of wits between themselves .
who’d waste his time talking to such a stupid bird ?
i don’t care if you love me or not ,  i like the cap and i’ll have it or i won’t have any .
the other voice is harsh and abusive .
and i see you survived your time in egypt .
do you love me ?
you’re a lying ,  cowardly wretch .
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  fire burn and cauldron bubble .
would you care to hear some music ?
i won’t play the fool anymore and just cry while my husband and his man laugh at me .
how is my wife ?
this is the door.
what evil and deceitful mirror made me think i could rival hermia’s starry eyes ?
let’s go; now all is well.
join your witchcraft with your beauty ,  and let antony’s lust combine with both .
i have put on those sheets you asked me to.
your husband knew it all .
your life insurance ?
sure and firm-set earth, don’t hear my steps, which ever way they walk, for fear your very stones disclose my whereabouts, and take the current horror from the time, which now suits it.
i know a thousand immature tricks like that ,  and i’ll use them all .
hurry up, hurry up!.
what can’t it do?
at your service ,  madam .
juliet !
do you have any doubts ,  antonio ?
you don’t know how to pick a man .
what did you say to me ?
god bless you !
ok, say no more.
what kind of game is this ?
three times in an hour i saw him down ,  and three times up again and fighting .
oh ,  let me kiss his hand !
in the meantime ,  we thank you for a job well done .
no ,  he’s an ordinary guy who ’s got a gentleman for a son ,  since someone would have to be crazy to let his son become a gentleman before he’s achieved that distinction himself .
if i do so, it will be more valuable, being spoken behind your back than to your face.
yes ,  i do .
where are these murderers ?
the duke and any of my fellow senators will take this wrong as seriously as if it were their own .
what, man!
i wish i could believe you that all was well !
is this true?
i want my bond .
then i’ll smack you on the head with the serving - creature’s knife .
am i not in the right, old jephthah?
what’s that noise ?
this is the matter, nurse, leave us alone a while, we must talk in secret.
by mary ,  well said ,  very well said .
sweetheart !
the groans you used to make are still ringing in my old ears .
i admit that he’s murderous ,  lecherous ,  greedy ,  lying ,  deceitful ,  violent ,  malicious ,  and guilty of every sin that has a name .
signor montano ,  your brave and loyal servant ,  gives you this information and asks you to send reinforcements to relieve him .
in the meantime, i will draw a list of props, that our play needs.
o calm ,  dishonorable ,  vile submission !
and ,  most dear actors ,  don’t eat any onions nor garlic ,  because we are to utter our lines with sweet breath; and i don’t doubt that we will hear them say it is a sweet comedy .
for juliet’s sake ,  for her sake ,  rise and stand up .
what do you mean ,  do i think so ?
that’s the one: leonato’s hero ,  your hero ,  every man’s hero .
how did that work ?
i had thought to have let in some of all professions that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire .
if you say that ,  you bastard ,  you’ll kill your queen .
by my count i was your mother pretty close to the age that you are now.
she’s not even fourteen .
no ,  not at all .
who is your lord?
and so ,  beautiful lady ,  i’m standing here just like that ,  wondering whether all this can be true until you tell me it is .
it is the poisoned cup; it is too late .
we’ll see about that !
a lively young one !
write down that prince john is a villain .
it’s already almost night .
there’s nothing wrong with that ,  but still be patient in all .
the people are on my side ,  and i’m in charge of the sea .
it’s leaping about like a frisky horse .
what ?
all my pretty ones?
your father !
avoid; no more!
and thus she moans ,  that is to say . — asleep ,  my love ?
six or seven thousand ,  at most .
true ,  my lord .
time has come round ,  and i’ll end where i began .
but ,  in the beaten way of friendship ,  what are you doing at elsinore ?
this wicked son of mine confirms the prediction —son against father .
then music with her silver sound ”with speedy help gives relief from sorrow.” what kind of an annoying knave is this guy?!
i mean a husband .
yes, they do, my lord, hercules and his load too.
hi ,  fair helena !
how did he become crazy ?
alas, poor wretch!
i think you are .
now curse my manners and my pride if hermia meant to say lysander lied !
if a man were answering the doors of hell, he would grow old turning the key.
i have much to tell you about them.
alas ,  she has been too long exiled from france ,  whose crops all lie in heaps ,  rotting with ripeness .
very disgusting in the morning when he is sober ,  and most disgusting in the afternoon when he is drunk: when he is best ,  he is a little worse than a man ,  and when he is worst ,  he is little better than a beast .
another studpid answer !
no, he will answer the letter's writer, how he dares being dared.
cesario ,  go visit that cruel olivia one more time .
i think you’re trustworthy one minute and then not the next .
now ,  you tanned fieldworkers who are so tired of august’s labors ,  get out of the dirt and come rejoice with us here .
were you here when it started ?
give me my sword.
as king ,  i cannot risk the danger he represents as he grows crazier by the hour .
no then, let the devil wear black, for i’ll have a suit of black fur.
what revels are in store?
what!
the labor we delight in cures pain.
you will also confess ,  i’m sure ,  that you love me .
murder most foul, as even at best it is still murder, but this murder is the most foul, strange, and unnatural.
and what hope is that ,  please ?
and, i beg you, twist the law once to your authority; to do a great right, do a little wrong, and deprive this cruel devil of his will.
to celebrate a contract of true love ,  and to bestow some free gifts on the blessed lovers .
what, banishment?
despise me, if i don’t.
still ,  edmund was beloved .
don’t cry ,  don’t cry .
she’s not good enough for you ,  then .
is your master awake yet ?
these things seem small and murky, like far-off mountain tops turned into clouds.
no ,  orlando ,  men are like april when they’re wooing a girl—young ,  and passionate—but like december once they’re married and their passions have cooled .
they who have done this deed are honorable.
shall one of us who killed the most important man in all this world just to support robbers , — shall we now contaminate our fingers with lowly bribes and sell the mighty positions of our great honors for so much trash as may be grabbed like this ?
you promised to give it to me after a full year .
go wherever you want .
i can see in your eyes there’s been some good news .
no ,  you entertain your suitors with mild and gentle conversation ,  quiet and pleasant .
there is a river in macedon ,  and there is likewise a river in monmouth .
uncomfortable time ,  why do you come now to murder ,  murder our solemnity ?
we would have desired your good advice, which still has been both serious and favorable, in this day's council, but we'll do it tomorrow.
oh ,  noble fool !
no, no!
villainy, villainy, villainy!
come ,  let’s go to the dance .
true .
o cassio, where did you get this?
who goes there?
does it really make sense ,  once we divide the world into three parts ,  that he should be one of the three rulers ?
i’ve almost missed the time he requested .
you lie .
good evening to your worship ,  good captain james .
up here you can’t even hear the waves crashing against the rocks .
indeed ,  i would have such an exploit for you ,  ligarius ,  if you were healthy enough to hear it .
are you ,  fatal vision ,  as insensitive to feeling as you are to sight ?
no, by my honor, madam, by my soul, no woman took it, but a civil doctor, which refused three thousand dollars of me, and begged for the ring, which i denied him, and let him go away displeased, even he that had delayed the very life of my dear friend.
god made him ,  and so let him pass for a man .
you hear nothing?
hey ,  bride !
the king and queen and all are coming down.
it was a brute part of him to kill so capital a stupid fellow there .
i know i’m going to die.
what’s the name of this forest behind us ?
but since your father doesn’t want him to marry you ,  you have to consider demetrius to be the better man .
why ,  your lieutenant ,  cassio .
that way i can conquer my own fear and sleep easy at night .
why are you looking for me ?
how are you ,  guildenstern ?
i’m to blame for making you wait for me .
my sword and i will earn our place in history .
the general and his wife are talking about it; and she strongly speaks up for you.
stop thinking about it ,  because nature ,  the moon ,  does not grow alone in strength and size ,  but as this temple grows ,  the inward duty of the mind and soul grows wide along with the rest .
something from venice, surely.
what if ,  when i am laid in the tomb ,  i wake up before the time that romeo is supposed to come and get me ?
one that was a woman, sir, but, rest her soul, she's dead.
leave me, iago.
you must say  “ paragon .  ”  a  “ paramour ”  is ,  god bless us ,  a thing of nothing .
what you have spoken may be so perhaps.
we’ll both be safer if we go separate ways .
ring the alarms bell .
i know you are not lazy .
i’ve been looking all over for you .
then come to my house tomorrow morning ,  and since you couldn’t be my son - in - law ,  be my nephew instead .
i often came to places where i heard of her ,  but i cannot find her .
and i’m such a sensitive ass that if my hair even tickles me a little ,  i need to scratch .
i am ready now .
this is the very product of your brain.
something of the moment, then.
out, prostitute!
no ,  gentle romeo ,  we must have you dance .
go on; i'll go to dinner; go quickly to the cell.
at my unworthiness, that dares not offer to you what i desire to give you, or much less take what i shall die to want from you.
we want antony taken alive .
do my simple features please you ?
i had business that made me late .
i found it in my bedroom; and he himself confessed just now that he dropped it there for a special purpose which would be bent to his desires .
why would anyone flatter a poor person ?
i wish i had two fool’s caps and two daughters .
if you took a good look at yourself ,  or if you thought about this more carefully ,  your fear would teach you to act more cautiously .
your games?
your crown burns my eyeballs .
gracious queen ,  even herod of judea wouldn’t dare look at you unless you were in a good mood .
only to your own satisfaction .
well ,  in and of itself ,  it is a good life ,  but given that it’s a shepherd’s life ,  it’s worthless .
you have taken a very just exception against me; but still, i protest, i have dealt very directly concerning your affair.
what additional sorrow conspires against my old age ?
ready to set sail ,  sir ?
o lady luck !
now let it work . —mischief ,  you’re working !
was he wounded on the front of his body ?
no ,  but ophelia i beg you ,  listen .
promises are only good when you remember them ,  born of violence but poor truth ,  which now ,  like unripe fruit ,  stays on the tree ,  but fall without shaking them off when they are ripe .
the tragic actors from the city ,  the ones you used to enjoy so much .
believing fools are caught like this; and many worthy and chaste dames just like this, all innocent, meet punishment.
pink for flower .
this was the noblest roman of them all .
live, roderigo, he calls me to give back all of gold and jewels that i robbed from him, as gifts to desdemona; it can’t happen.
her body sleeps in the capulet tomb, and her soul lives with the angels.
here’s decius brutus .
now here's another unhappy document, found in his pocket too; and this, it seems, that roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain; but that, very likely, iago in the meantime came in and satisfied him.
he wished that our undertaking today might thrive .
don’t scold; i have something for you .
while the armed hand fights in foreign lands ,  the wise head defends itself at home .
for mercy’s sake !
look at you !
o ,  treachery !
mister challenger ,  the princess wants to speak to you .
you’ve said it ,  friend ,  and farewell to you .
is it frailty makes mistakes like this ?
come, bird, come.
there’s meaning in your snoring .
yes, honest.
o heart ,  don’t give up now ,  don’t ever let the soul of nero ,  the crazy emperor ,  enter this determined heart .
i still see you, in form as evident to my touch as the one i now draw.
i’ve set dangerous plans in motion ,  using lies ,  drunken prophecies ,  and stories about dreams to set my brother clarence and the king against each other .
the sin of my ingratitude even now was heavy on me.
the prostitute's cheek ,  covered with makeup ,  isn’t more ugly to the thing that helps it than is my deed to my very artificial words .
oh ,  damn ,  damn ,  damn !
come on ,  then .
lysander, keep your hermia; i will have none of her.
dear me !
she weeps excessively about tybalt's death, and because of that, i haven’t talked a lot about love, because the goddess of love doesn’t smile in a house of tears.
then we'll move our ground.
come on; we'll visit caliban my slave ,  who never gives us a kind answer .
let this anger sharpen your sword .
i’ll fight you .
how can we tell which of us is the oldest ?
here comes newer comfort .
there isn’t a nobler man than antony in all of rome .
listen to me ,  madam .
i swear to her that i haven’t ,  but it doesn’t change anything .
god will revenge it .
but here’s a paper with caesar’s seal on it .
who can command the forest and make the trees pull their roots out of the earth ?
don’t believe it.
shall i strike at it with my club ?
if he steals anything the while this play is going on ,  and he escapes detection ,  i will pay for the theft .
leave me alone ,  desdemona ,  go away !
if they do fight ,  i hope lysander is safe !
i hoped you would have been my hamlet's wife ,  i thought to have decorated your bride - bed ,  sweet maid ,  and not your grave .
o nature ,  what did you have to do in hell when you sheltered the spirit of a fiend in a deadly paradise of such sweet flesh ?
we’re ruined !
why ,  dear child ?
goodbye .
there’s other work for you to do .
sir ,  these accusations should be answered .
the prince will sentence you to death if you are taken prisoner .
i don’t know what i’m doing .
not a word from me.
o ,  that a man might know how today's business ends before it comes !
no epilogue ,  i beg you ,  because your play needs no excuse .
a great disturbance in nature, to receive at once the benefit of sleep, and do things as if awake.
no, no, he is dead, go to your death-bed, he never will come again.
fabian can hardly control him over there .
we’ll meet them near birnam wood they are coming that way.
i’d hate to see you drowned in honey ,  sir .
yes ,  he was .
the most careful maid is wasteful enough if she unmasks her beauty to the moon.
but then i do you wrong to say as much ,  since you are the very embodiment of bravery .
yes ,  leeks are good .
we found him in the churchyard.
what’s this ?
all i know is that staying up late is staying up late .
authority .
so, so, so, so.
don’t  “  yes ,  nurse ,  what about that ?
and there were a hundred spooked women huddled together in fear who swore they saw men on fire walk up and down the streets .
it is very proper the lord bassanio live an upright life, because, having such a blessing in his lady, he finds the joys of heaven here on earth; and if he doesn’t merit it on earth, it stands to reason he should never enter heaven.
the best?
my father and mother coupled when the demonic moon was descending ,  and i was born under the big dipper ,  so it’s inevitable that i’m rude and oversexed .
i can tell you who time strolls for ,  who it trots for ,  who it gallops for ,  and who it stops cold for .
well ,  let's go ,  and tell macbeth how much we did .
i think that’s strange .
separate me from life with your sharp teeth .
the moor has killed my mistress!
still i won’t shed her blood; or scar that skin of hers whiter than snow ,  and as smooth as the marble that makes monuments .
when you “dared” to do it, then you were a man; and, in order to be more than what you are, you would be so much more the man.
to hell with your sword .
are they all ready ?
she has made a plan of how i shall take her from her father's house; what gold and jewels she has; what boy's suit she has ready .
what mistress do you have ?
did these bones cost no more the making of them but to play at games with them?
this “nothing” is more than just a story.
my lord!
oh ,  my handsome nephew ,  i must not say that .
highest queen of state ,  great juno comes; i know her by her walk .
speak, speak!
romeo, come here; come here, you fearful man.
isn’t she proud ?
a second daniel ,  a daniel ,  jew !
what music ?
do you know this water - fly ?
then i will go to my mother by and by.
that too .
the earth has swallowed all my hopes but she, she is the last hope i have.
if you can think of any crime not yet confessed to heaven and grace, do it right away.
ring the alarms bell!
by the god jupiter above ,  i swear  “ no .  ”  by jupiter’s wife juno ,  i swear  “ yes .  ”  they wouldn’t dare .
and if i could ,  what should i get for saying so ?
what can’t it do ?
o hell-kite!
who’s this coming here ?
how well my comfort is revived by this!
i’d like you to ,  see ,  because you don’t like it ,  and because it isn’t to your taste ,  and because it doesn’t agree with you .
we don’t come here with the intention of making you happy .
but he’s not better than mine .
having already thought about the fact that she would have to die sometime ,  i can endure her death now .
it’s me ,  my lord ,  and your poor servant forever .
give it to me !
it’s my duty ,  sir .
where’s your father ?
no ,  just listen to me .
fair love, you are exhausted with wandering in the forest.
my own griefs lie heavy in my heart; which you will take over to have it paired with more grief of your own .
oh ,  then i guess she was old and gentle ,  and you rode barelegged ,  like an irish yokel .
welcome, gentlemen!
but ,  in the truth of praise ,  i take him to be a soul of great note ,  and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as ,  to make true talk of him ,  he is what you see ,  and whoever copies him ,  is his shadow ,  nothing more .
such love must be treason in my breast .
keep it from leaving ,  marcellus .
let it be who it is .
o rude unthankfulness!
if you agree with my opinion, when it is time, it’ll be more honor for you.
the fire is ready .
god should keep me from false friends ,  but they weren’t false .
i know that regan will taste just like goneril—both of them sour crabapples .
the hero that died !
here it is .
be god's sonties, it will be a hard way to go.
i mean when i wore it at your daughter’s wedding .
a good deed in a naughty world shines like that .
by god ,  i’ll go after him again and beat him up .
wait ,  petruchio ,  i should go with you .
ask him to go in .
anyone who refuses to drink to my niece until his brain spins around like a merry - go - round is scum .
away ,  get going !
listening to their frightened voices ,  i couldn’t reply  “ amen ”  when they said  “ god bless us !  ”  don’t think about it so much .
so ,  go; these griefs and losses have so upset me that i shall hardly have a pound of flesh tomorrow give to my bloody creditor .
there will be rain tonight.
well ,  other men have bad luck too .
which is the merchant here, and which the jew?
only that a joy beyond joy calls out to me, it’s a grief so brief to part with you.
i’m a man ,  my lady ,  that god has made for himself to ruin .
oh ,  what misery !
no ? —then i can see that you’re not near .
if i ever have to ask you for something that will put your luck to the test ,  it’ll be something difficult and terrible .
oh !
although you bring me joy ,  i can’t take joy in this exchange of promises tonight .
is everybody here ?
i am very sorry about it, sir.
c’mon ,  make an effort .
and so i said to my daughter:  “ lord hamlet is a prince ,  he’s out of your league .
i was telling you to go after her ,  woo her ,  confront her .
in a minute, in a minute!
come, friends.
i’ve seen both of you fence .
don’t simply hide your hatred .
you told us you want something.
if i gave them all i own ,  i’d have two fool’s caps for myself .
there is a particular lord who will watch you perform tonight .
when she was a little chatterbox ,  o ,  there's a nobleman in town ,  one paris ,  that would gladly like her attention; but she ,  good soul ,  would rather see a toad ,  a very toad ,  than to see him .
did we ,  my lord ?
no doubt ,  but you may be going about it the wrong way—neighbor ,  this gift is very gracious ,  i’m sure .
he has the wisdom to act bravely but also safely .
why, well.
i’m going to stand so i can see him pass on the way to the capitol .
therefore ,  pardon me ,  and not attribute this surrender to light love ,  which the dark night has discovered .
security gives way to conspiracy .
that since she’s mad herself ,  she’s married a madman .
i'll not believe it.
now, god help you, poor monkey!
but the way he’s divided the kingdom recently ,  nobody can tell which of the dukes he favors more .
she will not put up with loving language nor tolerate loving looks, nor does she care if a guy is rich.
you can’t blame anyone for it anyone ,  i say .
isn’t that he ?
o ,  pardon me; it will do me good to walk .
we should rip off your man’s clothing and show the world the woman who has represented her own kind so badly .
no ,  my good lord .
help!
o, i could cry like a woman with my eyes, and brag with my tongue!
he grew into his seat, and had his horse do such wonderful things, as if he had been absorbed into the horse’s body with the brave beast.
give my compliments to your lady .
it’s damnation to think such a low thought; it’s too gross even to be used as her shroud in the obscure grave.
sir, can you tell where he is?
death is the best way to cover over her shame .
madam, i'll leave.
forget your epilogue .
a prophet from the bible come to judgment !
he speaks roughly ,  but what he says is smart ,  and his roughness makes other people enjoy listening to him .
kiss him for that ,  good widow .
no ,  not until we see a hot january .
in terms of choice ,  i am not only led by the nice direction of a maiden's eyes; besides ,  the lottery of my destiny doesn’t give me the right to choose voluntarily; but ,  if my father had not restricted me and controlled me by his wit ,  to give myself as his wife to the one who wins me by that means i told you ,  you yourself ,  renowned prince ,  would then stand as fair as any other man i have looked on yet for my affection .
let’s do it .
that’s when you gave them the spanking paddle and pulled your pants down ,             please ,  uncle ,  hire a teacher who can teach your fool to lie .
yes ,  sir .
the object of poison’s sight; let it be hidden .
it is well.
why do i have to do that ?
the clock has chimed midnight .
go .
the noble brutus told you that caesar was ambitious .
my lord !
send your man away .
jove protect you well for this!
well then ,  leave them alone until they’re sober .
i always loved you .
get me a surgeon !
i’ll follow you ,  my lord .
i won’t forget.
come, sirs.
i don’t have a lord .
it must be self - offense .
damn it !
here is a friar who’s trembling ,  sighing and weeping .
it is an honor that i never dreamed about.
will you go ahead ?
o, most wicked speed, to travel with such quickness to incestuous sheets!
find it !
but i’m overjoyed !
let me keep weeping for such a great loss .
now ,  by heaven ,  my blood begins to rule my safer sense ,  and passion ,  having influenced my better judgment tries to lead the way .
by the future .
who is this fool ?
cassius ,  stop worrying .
they’re ready ,  my lord .
don’t ask me anything .
you interpret my words in a melancholy sense ,  my hearty friends .
shouldn’t i say “has a dog got money?
please ,  corporal ,  stop !
believe me ,  i can tell her age to the hour .
let it be, because it’s the sport to have the swordsman killed with his own sword, and it won’t be easy but i will dig one yard below their mines and blow them at the moon.
what do you mean ?
he was more faithful to me than the sun is to the daytime .
one of these three boxes contains her lovely picture .
so you think you won’t marry again, but you’ll change your mind when your first lord is dead.
if you are merciful ,  open the tomb ,  lay me with juliet .
i’m not a slut—i keep myself clean—but i thank god i am ugly .
he’s honest ,  he’s got to speak the truth .
no ,  i can only make a joke for a specific occasion .
please ,  tell me this; if he should break his promise ,  what should i gain by taking his forfeit ?
i must wake you up .
i hear someone coming .
to whom, my lord?
hard working men that work here in athens ,  who never worked in their minds until now ,  and now they have toiled their bad memories to do this play in honor of your wedding .
my lord?
for pity’s sake, what’s this noise?
i want my bond ,  so stop talking .
where’s romeo ?
come, what does romeo say?
our son shall win .
give me your hand, roderigo.
yield up ,  o love ,  your crown and hearted throne to tyrannous hate !
alas, thrice-gentle cassio!
never quiet!
my lady's dead!
preference goes by who you know and who likes you, and not by old system, where each second person took the first’s place.
what if i say no?
but how is it possible that you still remember this ,  through all the darkness of the past ?
the best plays are only shadows, and the worst are no worse, if imagination can fill in the gaps.
he has refused it in the open court; he shall merely have justice, and his promise to pay.
to cut the default from that bankrupt there .
katherine the shrew !  ”  that’s the worst thing you can call a young woman .
look ,  here’s the necklace .
and yesterday, the night bird sat in the marketplace, in the middle of the day, howling and shrieking.
the wiser the woman ,  the wilder .
he’ll have to kill both of us ,  and indeed we’re both men .
who’s that coming over here ?
eventually ,  as patient as the female dove when that her golden twins are discovered ,  his silence will sit drooping .
i thank your lordship ,  it is very hot .
you need to .
winter garments need to be filled with something ,  and so does skinny rosalind .
he doesn’t know what he’s saying .
speak, nephew, where you there when it started?
please ,  young sir .
you cannot find scorn and derision in tears of love .
ask it something ,  horatio .
good portia ,  go ahead to bed .
o murderous simpleton !
i showed it to you once .
it is gone ,  and will not answer us .
speak ,  nephew .
it’s time to put our armor on .
he has come to kill my heart .
alas the day!
he sees himself in my two eyes ,  so there’s two of him .
come ,  hang them on this line .
good morning to you both !
i will hear further reason for this .
dead .
now ,  noble buckingham ,  seal this alliance by embracing my wife’s friends ,  and make me happy in your unity .
so ,  goodbye for now .
listen !
the time between is mine, and a man's life is longer than it takes to say “one.
don’t you know that i’m a woman ?
definitely not .
i have it!
i’m feeling very low ,  and i need to sleep .
with half the world opposing the other half ,  it wasn’t the time for antony ,  the pivotal player ,  to let love distract him .
nonsense ,  nonsense ,  it will not appear .
wasn’t that nobly done ?
i have done no harm.
we must speak by the book or lying will undo us.
just come again tomorrow .
oh ,  father ,  i’m taking care of your business .
a sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap ,  and munched ,  and munched ,  and munched .
isn’t that your habit ?
servant ,  go get drier logs .
who’s calling ?
i shook your hands for that reason; but i was really distracted from the point by looking down on caesar .
so young and so cruel ?
are you so patient that you can let this go ?
don’t be afraid of her company .
can you feel your legs ?
it has hatched a    i go unwillingly .
but that’s not part of what i’m supposed to say .
there are others who ,  dressed in uniforms and faces of duty ,  that keep their hearts attending on themselves; and ,  throwing only shows of service to their lords ,  thrive well by them ,  and when they have lined their coats ,  do themselves homage .
very suspicious !
he’s a good fellow ,  i can tell you that much .
why ,  get going .
look, how he gets caesar’s attention.
sometimes the love my subjects bring me is inconvenient ,  but i still accept it as love .
you can’t have anything but the penalty ,  to be taken at your peril ,  jew .
you will love more than you are loved .
but here are other matters to be dealt with .
i remember wooing a pea plant in her name ,  and then taking two pea pods and begging her to wear them  “ for my sake .  ”  those of us who are really in love will do the strangest things .
how is it that moonshine is gone before thisbe comes back and finds her lover?
good evening to my ghostly confessor.
you’ll force me, then, to read the will?
your highness will have to force me to tell .
how can you square things with me ?
i cannot find it; it’s not in the promise to pay.
if you refuse ,  let an eternal curse fall on you .
i'll show you every fertile inch of the island; and i will kiss your foot.
cassio can have my job .
very reverend signior, do you know my voice?
no ,  i don’t ,  my lord .
wasn’t it just yesterday that we spoke to each other ?
they probably received warning about how much i stirred up the people .
i will ,  my lord .
call my guard ,  please .
three civil brawls, started by a meaningless comment, by you, old capulet, and you, montague have three times disturbed the quiet of our streets and made verona’s senior citizens take out sober mementos of war and fighting, to use them again as weapons, in their old hands, rusted from not being used, as hate has rusted your families.
for god’s sake ,  let me hear it .
he's very popular with this country’s masses ,  who like not in their minds ,  but with their eyes ,  and where it is so ,  the offender's punishment is important ,  but never the offense .
may he bless you ,  too .
it’s always like this in times of change .
no ,  none at all .
i am friends with you all and love you all ,  on one condition—that you prove to me that caesar was dangerous .
don’t you know he has ?
still a fountain, girl?
look at him .
i told you not to hang around my house .
as they pass by ,  grab casca by the sleeve; and he’ll ,  in his sour way ,  tell you what notable events have happened today .
good morning to you both!
curse me ,  but i love her heartily; because she is wise ,  if i can judge her ,  and she is beautiful ,  if my eyes can really see ,  and she is true ,  as she has proved herself; and so ,  like herself ,  wise ,  beautiful ,  and true ,  she shall be placed in my faithful soul .
good friends, sweet friends, don’t let me stir you up to such a sudden flood of rebellion.
goodbye ,  nymph .
so find someone younger to love ,  or you won’t be able to maintain your feelings .
who else should it be ?
and isn’t ,  then ,  well served with a sweet goose ?
many men would take you literally and take off with all this money .
it has to be of mild, tender, and delicate climate.
i’d rather lie in the nile mud with flies laying their eggs in me ,  making me disgusting .
why should i play the roman fool and die on my own sword?
farewell happiness!
but i say amen to everything she said .
god bless your grace !
lucius ,  who's knocking ?
now i will believe that there are unicorns; that in arabia there is one tree, the throne of the phoenix; one phoenix reigning there now.
a double blessing is a double grace ,  it’s a better occasion to smile at saying goodbye again .
you'd be king of the island ,  servant ?
they’ve eaten themselves sick .
i mean ,  what sort of man is he ?
what a pity, what a pity that heaven should practice its strategies on a weak subject such as i am!
women are like roses: the moment their beauty is in full bloom ,  it’s about to decay .
it is unusually cold ,  my lord ,  indeed .
my name is petruchio ,  son of antonio ,  a man well known throughout italy .
he's married .
that he felt for me the love that i begged him to feel for you .
cough them up .
oh ,  how awful that a lady who’s been rejected by one man should therefore be treated horribly by another one !
what horrible desire is this?
what do you say?
sirs ,  why did you cry out like that your sleep ?
good - bye .
what a worthy man !
may be the letter upset him; because ,  i think ,  they command him to come home ,  making cassio governor in his place .
but i ,  who have never known how to beg and never had to beg ,  am starved for food ,  dizzy with lack of sleep ,  kept awake with curses and fed with brawling .
you’ll have to woo bianca like the rest .
i have never seen a day that is so disgustingly filthy and beautiful .
now that you speak of paper ,  i remember a funny story of hero’s .
to me, it is a prison.
your mother sends her blessings .
beware the ides of march .
you should tell antonio what you hear—but don’t do it suddenly ,  because it might upset him .
but ,  look ,  the morning ,  dressed in a red cape ,  walks over the dew of that high hill in the east .
love ?
look ,  here are the boxes ,  prince .
that’s already been done ,  sir .
romeo!
well ,  that one ,  i think ,  is young petruchio .
if you hadn’t been their father ,  your white hair would have inspired in them only compassion .
only to be honest and give it to you again.
probably because my cheeks' roses needed rain ,  which i could easily give them with all the tears in my eyes .
but such officers do the king best service in the end .
a friend .
how are you doing ?
what is the reason for this terrible summons ?
here in the tent .
we have been praying for our husbands' welfare ,  which are moving along quickly ,  we hope ,  the better for our words .
but i will tell you this very plainly: i have challenged claudio ,  and either he’ll accept the challenge or admit he’s a coward .
you should look like an innocent flower ,  but be like the snake that hides underneath the flower .
no, if you strive… but half an hour!
why don’t you answer me ,  man ?
why ,  even so .
it wants to be spoken to .
i don’t trust you .
welcome, wanderer.
the same liquor that quenched their thirst has fired me up .
if you like ,  brakenbury ,  you can listen to anything we say .
but for a fine ,  elegant ,  graceful ,  and excellent dress ,  yours is worth ten of those .
go get some sleep; go where you are staying.
as woman's love .
they’re ready whenever you are .
but did you listen to all that poetry without even wondering about what your name is doing on all these trees ?
noble sebastian, you let your fortune sleep — die rather: wink while you are waking.
highest queen of state, great juno comes; i know her by her walk.
lorenzo and his infidel ?
i won’t miss any chance to send my love to you .
we will not have enough food and drink for this feast .
well ,  i’m sorry for you ,  gentle silvius .
and isn’t a sheep’s grease as wholesome as a man’s sweat ?
the ,  who took my letter to romeo ?
help me here .
i’ll drain the life out of him .
what, not a word?
i’ll call it  “ bottom’s dream ”  because it’s so deep that it has no bottom .
this may end without anyone getting killed .
death didn’t conquer
it’s like this, general.
god ,  help us not be jealous !
my treasure has no boundaries ,  just like the sea ,  my love is as deep as the sea; the more i give to you ,  the more i have ,  for both my love and the sea are infinite .
what ,  are you crazy ?
the hell with him ,  jack !
i’m determined to be heard by someone .
treat me well .
he has a person, and a smooth disposition, to be suspected, framed to make women lie.
my lord, i do.
has he taken care of the music ?
though his ship will not be lost ,  it will be tossed about on the rough ocean .
have i done something to offend you without knowing it ?
content with hermia ?
amen!
for brutus ,  as you know ,  was caesar’s angel .
convince him that he has been out of his mind—and when he says he’s out of his mind  my lord ,  i promise we will play our parts so skillfully that he will believe everything we tell him .
for who is living ,  if those two are gone ?
i’m ready.
will you have dinner with me tonight ,  casca ?
let all the soldiers come down .
you ,  to remove that siege of grief from her ,  engaged and would have married her against her will ,  to count paris .
my invocation is fair and honest ,  and ,  in his mistress' name ,  i only conjure him to raise up him .
wear your wrongs ,  the title is settled .
what’s the matter ?
the more i hate him ,  the more he follows me around .
while he was still in rome ,  he deployed his forces in so many different disguises that all our spies were fooled .
thomas ,  the earl of surrey ,  and he were moving from troop to troop around twilight cheering up the soldiers .
as birds do, mother.
good afternoon ,  good gentleman .
no ,  cousin ,  i'm going to fife .
that’s not good; i don’t like it .
gentles ,  perhaps you wonder at this show; but wonder on until the truth makes all things clear .
you wilt not murder me?
not where he eats ,  but where he is eaten .
but, remember— because that's my business to you,—that you three from milan replaced good prospero; exposed him and his innocent child to the sea, which has repaid it: for which evil deed, the powers, delaying but not forgetting, have angered the seas and shores, yes, all the creatures, against your peace of mind.
is that possible ?
why bother with them ?
well, sir.
but i promise it can be cured with some guidance .
you go and talk to the duke so he won’t notice i’m helping the king .
you shall hear more by midnight .
i have it !
i’m dying an innocent woman .
i don’t think it’s a good idea .
don’t ever tell anyone what you’ve seen tonight .
didn’t you lead him through the glimmering night from perigenia, the girl he had just raped?
i gave you my vow before you asked for it, and yet, i wish i could give it again.
and are you living, stephano?
naked in bed, iago, and not mean harm!
the ghost is definitely something to worry about .
i am very glad that he's so out of hope .
so perfect and so peerless ,  are created out of every creature's best virtues .
what are you waiting for?
most royal sir, fleance escaped.
i asked you again ,  and you scratched your head and stamped your foot impatiently .
in that event ,  you gods ,  you make the weak the strongest; in that event ,  you gods ,  you defeat tyrants .
i have.
but if he’s resistant and chilly ,  then be like that too and break off the conversation .
if you see anything else ,  let me know .
it’s difficult to have such immaturity so close to my heart ,  but bear with me .
i’ll grant you that i’m a woman ,  but i am ,  besides ,  a woman of good reputation ,  cato's daughter .
say something .
will you come with us ?
i thank you for this lesson; and from this point forward ,  i'll love no friend ,  since love breeds such contempt .
you know where i’ll be waiting .
give me your love instead ,  as i give you mine .
tell me in sadness who is that you love?
my lord ,  his majesty sent a message to you by young osric ,  who tells him that you will meet him in the hall .
phoebe wrote it .
that’s my brave lord !
and that’s what you want me to do !
yes ,  you poor ghost ,  while memory holds a seat in this confused world .
leave them alone until he sets off home ,  and then follow him .
you see ,  her eyes are open .
the worst welcome.
no, but ask my opinion too about that.
oh ,  caesar ,  read mine first ,  for my petition affects you more directly .
i order you to speak !
good morning, cousin is it morning?
my leg is cut in two.
how are you, madam?
what’s it to you ?
a peevish schoolboy, worthless of such honor, joined with a man in a mask and a party man!
hail, mortal!
you’ve never thought of me like that ,  and you have no reason to .
well, she’ll be there.
don’t provoke them to battle until we have finished at sea .
then the world is one.
for my own part ,  no offense to the general ,  nor any man of quality ,  i hope to be saved .
look, where he is coming!
you have lost no reputation at all ,  unless you believe yourself to be such a loser .
what do you think ,  will my friends prove loyal ?
has he come home yet?
that she did .
we shall lose our opportunity, and we’ll all be turned into geese, or into apes with villainous, low foreheads.
do you believe his “offers,” as you call them?
didn’t you figure out that i left you because i hate you ?
oh ,  how bitter it is that edward—the real  “ true ,  noble prince ” —should still be alive !
listen ,  she loved her cousin tybalt dearly ,  and so did i .
but in loving me ,  you would love the friend of france ,  for i love france so much that i will not part with a single village of it .
would you like to hear some music ,  my sweet love ?
but where will i lie tomorrow ?
must i stand and bend under your short - tempered mood ?
your humor is a spicy sauce .
now.
if i can believe my eyes ,  this is a fine sight to see .
what do you say ,  my lord ?
please let her speak .
may god be at your table .
there are two opposite elements in everything ,  in men as well as in herbs—good and evil .
o caesar, read mine first, because mine's a suit that touches caesar nearer.
you are really putting your virginity at risk ,  to leave the city ,  and surrender yourself to the hands of someone who doesn’t love you ,  to go night thinking that nothing can happen ,  and to come to a deserted place ,  with something as rich as your virginity .
i have quarreled four times ,  and almost got in a fight .
my forces are growing ,  and everything i know tells me it’s all coming together .
look how she rubs her hands.
get out ,  tawny barbarian ,  out !
tybalt is lying over there .
god forbid!
gracious lord ,  blunt the swords of those traitors who mean to tear poor england apart again !
honest iago ,  looking dead with grieving ,  speak ,  who began this ?
did she give up all those chances to marry noblemen ,  give up her father and country and friends ,  just to be called a whore ?
is fleance going with you ?
i am required by oath to observe three things: first ,  never to tell anyone which chest i chose; next ,  if i fail to choose the right chest ,  i will never court a maid to marry for my whole life; lastly ,  if i do fail in choosing the right chest ,  i will leave you immediately and be gone .
i’m just wandering ,  with no particular destination .
the original story was written in the finest italian .
i will roar so well that it will do any man's heart good to hear me; i will roar so well that i will make the duke say ,   “ let him roar again ,  let him roar again .  ”  if you should do it too terribly ,  you would so frighten the duchess and the ladies ,  that they would scream; and that would be enough to hang us all .
it’s true she looked at me a lot ,  in fact ,  she looked at me so much that she seemed distracted ,  and couldn’t really finish her sentences very well .
i was afraid of this, but i thought he had no weapon; he was great of heart.
let’s do that ,  lysander .
listen, listen, o, listen!
i’ve stayed up with you for two nights now ,  and i haven’t seen any evidence of what you were talking about .
everyone ,  quiet . — peace !
it’s too much .
come on—kill me and brag about it !
what's the matter ?
all that i will tell you is ,  that the duke has dined .
be quiet ,  for shame !
i’ll prove with my sword that i’m not scared of you .
and make sure to carry a prayer book in your hand and to stand between two priests ,  okay ?
a friend.
ah ,  how pitiful !
what’s the problem that caesar and his senate must fix?
oh ,  the glory of war has faded .
my lord ?
i’m glad to hear it .
give me an almanac .
it would be wrong for me to think poorly of my grandmother .
he that you knows you ,  hamlet .
if he’s caught the benedick ,  he’ll lose all his money before he’s cured .
is it possible ?
if i tremble then ,  you can call me a little girl .
let me choose; because as i am, i live in torture.
please ,  don’t make fun of me .
neither ,  my lord .
as you go through the house ,  use the dead and drowsy fire to give glimmering light ,  every elf and fairy spirit hop as lightly as bird hops from a thorn: and sing this little song ,  following me ,  and dance it as you sing it .
i didn’t take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me .  ”  that’s like saying ,   “ any thing i do for you is as easy as saying ‘thank you . ’ ”  if this doesn’t move me to take pity on her ,  i’m a horrible person .
why ,  now ,  blow wind ,  swell seas ,  and swim ships !
signior balthasar ,  you look upset .
in any case, let thisbe have clean linen; and don’t let him that plays the lion cut his nails, because they shall hang out for the lion's claws.
seyton ! —i’m sick at heart when i see—seyton ,  come here ! —this battle will either secure my reign forever or else topple me from the throne .
my lord ,  i informed them as much .
our action will seem too bloody if we cut off caesar’s head and then hack at his arms and legs too ,  caius cassius—because mark antony is merely one of caesar’s arms .
and although we’re giving these honors to this man so that he shares some of the blame for what we’re doing ,  he’ll carry these honors like a jackass carries gold—groaning and sweating under the load ,  either led or pushed ,  as we direct him .
what do you want to say ,  sir ?
i’ll call you a minstrel .
the leftovers from the funeral dinner made a convenient wedding banquet .
let me suffer your anger if it isn’t so.
demetrius loves her ,  and he doesn’t love you .
committed!
is it possible ,  my lord ?
the enemies of caesar shall say all this; then ,  in a friend ,  it is cold shame .
who is that they’re following ?
words ,  words ,  words .
a spirit ?
any villain in denmark is going to be ,  well ,  a villain .
will you make me happy?
hail to you ,  thane of glamis !
a good wench; give it to me.
come, come with me, and we will be quick, because, by your permission, you shall not stay alone until holy church incorporates the two of you into one.
a grave ?
well run ,  thisbe .
send out more cavalry .
there’s no way to read a man’s mind by looking at his face .
my wife’s coming .
take off my mistress' gown for your master’s use !
what ?
going to find a fellow brother ,  one of our order ,  to help me visit the sick here in this city ,  and finding him ,  the searchers of the town ,  suspecting that we both were in a house where the infectious plague was ,  sealed up the doors ,  and wouldn’t let us leave; so that my speed to mantua was delayed by that .
i won’t be far from you.
so all hail ,  macbeth and banquo !
down with the top mast!
and when i don’t love you, chaos comes back.
with who ?
that’s  signior baptista ,  will you really be this cruel ?
learn to see better ,  lear ,  and let me stay here where you can look to me for good advice .
i have a good plan .
so did i .
no, by no means.
no, in truth, sir, he should not.
you’ve made up your mind ,  then ?
where are my father and my mother ,  nurse ?
isn’t that he?
you’ll be able to identify the man by the athenian garments he has on .
indeed ,  he’s not fit .
good old lord gonzalo ,  ”  as you call him ,  is saddest of all ,  with tears running down his beard .
where is my gracious lord of canterbury ?
who's in there?
i don’t really understand what you mean .
servant - monster !
yes, sir, but “while the grass grows”— the proverb is a bit old-fashioned.
orsino .
nonsense !
if a christian doesn’t play the rogue and get you, i am much deceived.
be patient ,  madam .
now ,  among this flock of drunkards ,  i am make our cassio do some action that may offend the isle .
the name of cassius gives credit to these corrupt actions ,  and so they go unpunished .
i’ll think it over .
o, farewell!
and the prince and claudio ,  who accused her ,  are innocent as well ,  because they were deceived by don john .
excellent well .
isn’t that true ?
confess yourself to heaven, repent what's past, avoid what is to come, and don’t spread fertilizer on the weeds, to make them more rotten.
goodbye, good launcelot.
here are the long, black eyebrows that shall blush for me.
you don’t know me ,  but i know you though in your state of honor .
servant ,  a word with you .
actually ,  even by losing his mind .
no ,  he comes to be married  lady ,  do you come here to be married to this count ?
we wish your peace .
goodbye ,  my lord .
no .
a friend would never see those faults .
well; if any man in italy has a better table that offers to swear on a book, i shall have good luck.
don’t be afraid of what i think .
he ran to his house ,  stunned .
i don’t know from what part of the world i should be contacted ,  if not by lord hamlet .
yes ,  there it is .
i took the hint and spoke to her .
you may call me that ,  sir ,  when i may be a wife .
no !
has there been such a time ,  i’d gladly know that ,  that i have positively said  “ it is so ,  ”  and it wasn’t ?
o child !
i sent for you about a sad occasion .
my lord ?
he’s a devil ,  a born devil ,  who can never be trained .
don’t kneel ,  gentle portia .
how is it, my soul?
we arrived here on this island: and here i ,  your schoolmaster ,  have made you grow more than other princes can ,  who have more time for worthless hours ,  and tutors that are not as careful .
oh i wish your frowns would teach my smiles to have that effect!
casca will tell us what’s wrong .
o treason of the blood!
you won’t see anything like that ,  sweetheart .
they say the horses ate each other .
you think so ?
no ,  we’ll sneak away at supper time ,  disguise ourselves with masks at my house ,  and come back in an hour .
i hope some will fall off tomorrow .
the duke in council!
how would you woo her ?
how are you doing ,  cassio ? —someone bring me a stretcher !
what change is this, sweet love?
but first ,  i’ll dump this fellow in his grave ,  then return to my love weeping with grief .
because he’s so young ,  i’ve tried to discourage him ,  but he won’t listen .
what part is that ,  my lord ?
my friends told me as much ,  and i knew it ,  too .
then i guess beggars are the ones with bodies ,  while ambitious kings and heroes are just the shadows of beggars .
this is just a trifling matter here ,  sir .
the devil in him is strong !
so then why should i offer this womanish defense that i’m innocent ?
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands, and they unwashed too, it’s a foul thing.
it would be wonderfully wise of you ,  my dear reynaldo ,  to ask around about his behavior a little before you visit him .
you have to tell me.
so take for life a fellow of pure and plain faithfulness .
let him alone; i won’t follow him any more with useless prayers .
go !
and why are you noble ,  strong ,  and brave ?
take me to octavius.
and that would get us all executed .
if he’d written nice things ,  i’d swear yes right away .
i hope all reports about me simply tell the truth ,  no more or less .
but could beauty be related to anything better than goodness ?
bow, stubborn knees, and, heart, with strings of steel, be soft as the muscles of the newborn baby!
well then ,  if i’ve ever thanked a man ,  i’ll thank you now .
you’re bleeding a lot .
i was an idiot to take it !
i’m not a traitor ,  unfair lady .
this tunis ,  sir ,  was carthage .
we’ll probably witness many more outbursts from him ,  like banishing kent .
he is dead and gone ,  lady ,  he is dead and gone ,  at his head a grass green turf ,  at his heels a stone .
only he rides well, and his great love of us, as sharp as his spur, has helped him to get to his home before us.
please listen to me speak .
get out of my sight !
i beg you, don’t let my jealousies be your dishonors, only my own safeties.
see how well she can turn ?
he’ll go back to his egyptian dish .
if this is a dream ,  let me keep on sleeping !
yes ,  let’s do that .
what do you think about it ?
good god ,  soon we’ll remove the thing that makes us strangers !
i’m not marvelous ,  sir ,  but i’m certainly a maiden .
that's the end .
you will do it, sir, really.
i’d rather overload my liver with wine than starve my heart by denying myself fun .
wake up!—" such instigations have often been dropped where i have picked them up.
yes .
save yourself, my lord.
yes ,  let her die and rot and go to hell tonight .
listen, more knocking.
yes ,  my lord .
let them be hunted soundly.
portia ,  go in awhile ,  and by and by ,  your heart shall hear the secrets of my heart .
read it instantly .
who’s shouting ?
if she’s a traitor ,  why then ,  so am i .
it’s me, a friend, and one that knows you well.
don’t hang on my clothes .
in action how like an angel!
where ?
if this isn’t what you’ve been hoping for ,  i have no more to say except that you ought to say goodbye to bianca forever .
follow it ,  follow it !
so stop crying.
don’t delay ,  caesar; read it instantly .
flout them and scout them; and scout them and flout them: thought is free .
how can they refuse to speak with me ?
why ,  do you know of any harm intended toward him ?
leave her to heaven ,  and to those thorns that live in her bosom ,  to prick and sting her .
what will all this lead to ?
now please ,  tell beatrice to come out .
if that means i don’t care about anything ,  you should disappear right now ,  since you’re nothing .
beat him enough: after a little time, i'll beat him too.
we will follow you.
what’s that noise ?
pardon me, caesar; because my dear, dear love to your advancement bids me tell you this; and reason is responsible to my love.
did you try to get him to engage in any pastime?
i therefore testify again, that he worked on her with some mixtures powerful over the blood, or with some dram that produced this effect.
o ,  how my heart hates to hear his name ,  and i can’t present myself to him ,  to vent the love i had for my cousin tybalt upon the body of the man that has slaughtered him !
and yesterday ,  the night bird sat in the marketplace ,  in the middle of the day ,  howling and shrieking .
if you stick us, don’t we bleed?
that’s not a job for a friend ,  my lord .
goodbye.
many proper men that ever walked on cowhide leather have walked on my work .
what, gertrude?
it is myself ,  i mean ,  in whom i know all the particulars of vice are so grafted that ,  when they shall be opened ,  black macbeth will seem as pure as snow ,  and the poor state will respect him as a lamb ,  being compared with my unlimited evils .
if you be he, sir, i desire some confidence with you.
she can hide there and eavesdrop on our conversation .
no ,  please good meg ,  i’ll wear this one .
is that the latest we can do it ?
then heaven have mercy on me .
oh ,  the world never saw a sweeter creature .
this is the brave sergeant who fought to keep me from being captured .
why should he stay whom love presses to go ?
i beg you ,  leave .
they are my daylight ,  my life .
come back to me again ,  and bring me word about what he says to you .
please don’t let his youth be an impediment to giving him the utmost respect, because i never knew so young a body with so old a head.
i’m no villain .
you swore to me, when i gave it you, that you would wear it until the hour of your death, and that it would go with you to your grave; you should have respected and have kept it though not for me, but for your intense oaths.
we must be patient.
it is not honesty in me to discuss what i have seen and known .
what news?
but you don’t look as if you bring good news .
is he gone ,  and he has nothing ?
my lord ,  when i first saw him i thought he was your daughter’s brother .
why are you locking her away because of this fiend from hell ,  signor baptista ?
doesn’t it look like the king ?
it’s two o'clock now .
you are to blame ,  my lord ,  to berate her like this .
grandmother ,  this would have been a biting joke .
you need to sleep.
you mar all with this starting.
when i fell in love with othello i made up my mind that i wanted to live with him .
o ,  the blood of my dear kinsman is spilled !
and that would be— ?
what do you get to drink ,  instead of sweet obedience ,  but poisonous flattery ?
make your confession short .
my dear fool ,  because my brother died .
god knows why ,  but your mother and your brother have taken sanctuary in westminster abbey .
keep him away from me !
let’s go, we’re leaving; our party-crashing is done.
he ate at my house ,  but that doesn’t make me nervous .
now that i think about the danger of these knights ,  if you come to stay with me ,  please bring no more than twenty - five of them with you .
o wretched villain !
in addition to the fact that we have wanted to see you for a long time, the reason we need to see you made us send our hasty invitation.
i haven’t done anything wrong .
i’m good at everything that ordinary men can do .
flout them and scout them; and scout them and flout them: thought is free.
don’t deceive me .
you cannot, sir, take from me anything that i will more willingly part with, except my life, except my life, except my life.
what ,  do you look pale ?
make my blood thick, stop up the ways remorse can get into and leave my body, that no feelings of guilt keep me from what i intend to do, or put guilt between the consequences and the deed!
what  “ half the story ,  ”  sir ?
what is it that they do when they exchange us for others ?
who called for you ?
in the meantime, we thank you for a job well done.
when you’ve finished all this ,  return to the porch of pompey’s theater ,  where you’ll find us .
dear general, i never gave you any reason.
what ,  are you sleepy ?
goodbye.
there’s no other shelter around here .
for your life, you wouldn’t have dared.
i’ll go put my armor on .
my lord bassanio ,  listening to more advice ,  has sent you this ring here ,  and asks your company at dinner .
leonato’s daughter had told us everything .
but fortune could not reward me better than to let me die well ,  without owing my master anything .
o, she teaches the torches to burn bright!
how can this be ?
who is calling so loudly ?
but he told me to get lost and threatened to hit me ,  kick me—even kill me .
what a piece of work is man!
with courtesy and with respect enough, only not with such familiar instances, or with such free and friendly conversation, as he used to in the old days.
but why did you tempt the heavens like that ?
i thank you, doctor.
it never ceases to amaze me the way people ignore the correct ,  traditional principles and rules of war .
a foolish heart that i’m leaving behind here.
go get it ,  let me see it .
macduff ,  this noble passion ,  child of integrity ,  has wiped the black scruples from my soul ,  and reconciled my thoughts to your good truth and honor .
i beg you, tell me, then, that he is well.
a golden mind doesn’t bend down to choose something worthless .
you’ll find i’ll give it to you very willingly .
oh great ,  here come the capulets .
have you seen a farmer’s dog bark at a beggar ?
he’s talking with the bogus father about the bogus son .
she trembled and shook because he stamped and swore and carried on as though the vicar were trying to put something over on him .
i had forgotten about you .
even if his joy is joy ,  still throw such aggravation on it that he won’t stay happy for long .
only i’m afraid your nature; it is too full of the milk of human kindness to a shortcut to power.
so ,  now you're paid .
will you make me happy ?
i am .
yes ,  like your horse ,  who ,  staggering under your boasts ,  would trot more easily if some of them dismounted .
our men have all broken ranks .
our poor father ,  clarence !
i never thought any less of him .
if the turkish fleet is not sheltered and in a bay ,  they are drowned; it is impossible to wait it out .
my lord ,  i have thought over the request you just made of me .
please just name a time ,  but don’t wait more than three days .
say no more .
he's dead ,  he's dead ,  he's dead !
aren’t you a prostitute ?
there was even more foolishness ,  if i could only remember it .
so it’s nearly the time when the ghost likes to appear .
have you written the lion's part?
sirs ,  the duke is coming from the temple; and there are two or three lords and ladies more married .
it was a total fluke that you yourself were saved .
any news from genoa ?
that’s most appropriate .
yes ,  you fear it ?
now ,  most noble brutus ,  the gods are friendly with us today so that we ,  who want peace ,  can live on to old age !
a love song ,  a love song .
yes ,  my good lord .
that guy’s funny .
it’s torture ,  not mercy .
if he won’t stop when he’s told to ,  then he isn’t one of the prince’s subjects .
lord babyface over there will meet me in a duel ,  and good luck to him then .
oh setebos ,  these are handsome spirits !
i can’t enjoy either of them as long as the other one’s alive .
indeed!
first ,  he sends his regards .
if you’ve got tears ,  get ready to shed them now .
so i expect his .
i'll call them back again to comfort me; nurse !
and you’re not to utter a syllable of tranio’s name .
i myself ,  who am more indebted to you than anyone ,  have brought you this young scholar
yes ,  even power gets in its own way .
you can’t get any more money out of me right now .
come on ,  niece ,  i’m sure you love him .
virtue turns to vice if it’s misused .
but since laertes is better ,  we’ve given him a handicap .
do you think you’ve got a couple of fools on your hands here ?
so do you take her or leave her ?
a play there is ,  my lord ,  some ten words long ,  which is as brief as i have known a play; but by ten words ,  my lord ,  it is too long ,  which makes it tedious ,  because ,  in all the play there is not one appropriate word ,  one player a good actor .
oh ,  you devil ,  you devil !
turn around ,  you dog from hell ,  turn around !
what, are you a pagan?
lighter and lighter ,  darker and darker our sorrows !
passing the bottle] here, kiss the book [gives trinculo a drink].
this is the end of my journey ,  the end of my life .
will you hear it again ?
they all fell asleep together, as if they all agreed; they dropped, as if hit by a thunder-stroke.
sit down ,  clitus .
i will ,  my lord .
yes, my lord.
yes ,  right away .
i’ll have herod’s head chopped off !
with a touch of green in it .
why did you bring these daggers from the room ?
out ,  damned spot !
no one will get food poisoning ,  sir; i'll watch to see if they lick their fingers .
then, i’ll attack you with my wit!
what is your name ,  young man ?
on that point ,  our letters don’t agree .
yes ,  let the count get you out of your bed .
what we are is up to us .
where love is great ,  the littlest doubts are very fearful ,  where little fears grow great ,  great love also grows there .
you’d break a date with your beloved by a whole hour ?
truly, sir, you don’t need to be afraid.
is this a dagger i see in front of me ,  with its handle pointing toward my hand ?
give me my sin again .
what are you going to do now ?
i’ve made my choice .
i sent the nurse at nine o'clock .
o, do you think we shall ever meet again?
release me so i can return to my dukedom with your help .
and, see, your wife is with him.
what i deserve is that you treat me like a queen ,  and what you deserve is to act like my subjects .
the jewels you have had from me to deliver to desdemona would half have corrupted a nun .
i’ve never been your enemy .
at that exact moment ,  titania woke up and immediately fell in love with him ,  an ass .
what do you mean ,  get rid of him ?
you’re right .
tell me ,  so i can cut it out of myself .
for you are as glorious to this night ,  that is over my head ,  as is a wingéd messenger of heaven to the white ,  upturned ,  wondering eyes of mortals that fall back to gaze on him when he crosses the slow moving clouds and sails upon the heart of the wind .
why should that name be sounded any more than yours?
listen to my reasons and be silent so you can hear .
and what’s the point ,  sir ?
madam ,  that young man out there says he’s got to speak to you .
good morning ,  my good lords .
you have done a deed, i don’t care about your sword; i'll make you famous, although i lose twenty lives.
what sense did i have of her stolen hours of lust?
madam ,  count orsino’s young messenger has returned .
away !
how’s it going ,  shylock ?
pretty york ,  who told you about his teeth ?
here’s another jacket to say thanks .
my ancestors drove tarquin from the streets of rome when he was called a king . —  " speak ,  strike ,  revenge !
what ,  are you crazy ?
oh ,  fate ,  come and cut the thread of my life .
my heart journeyed to her only like a guest ,  and now has returned home to helena ,  there to remain .
it was some devil .
he has ridden his prologue like a rough colt.
which one of you all will now deny to dance?
i would it might be hangers till then .
i have the authority to dismiss this court ,  unless bellario comes today .
i think i’ve found one already ,  thanks to you ,  my lord .
gallop quickly, you horses with fiery flames for feet, towards the sun god’s house.
the moon ,  i think ,  looks as if she has watery eyes ,  and when she weeps ,  every little flower weeps ,  lamenting some enforced chastity .
are all the rest returning?
your honor is very welcome .
and will you give me permission ?
this is a trick to distract me from my request.
i’ll follow it .
yes ,  be content ,  good touchstone .
o sin sweetly encouraged!
how did he get such an idea ?
well ,  i’m going to break in .
wait just a minute ,  you brazen hussy .
i don’t even know you .
but what warmth is there in your affections towards any of these princes that have already come to try ?
my lord, this would not be believed in venice, although i could swear i saw it.
i would govern with perfection like yours, sir, to surpass the golden age.
why ,  man ,  they did make love to this job .
where did we leave off ?
oh yes ,  you spoke ,  my lord ,  but total nonsense .
there goes a strong fellow ,  menas .
i have done wrong ,  so i will suffer wrong .
who is her mother ?
alas ,  my lord ,  what do you mean by that ?
since you have given me my dukedom again, i will repay you with just as good a thing; at least bring out a wonder, to make you as happy as i am to have my dukedom.
some true love turned false must follow because of your mistake ,  and not a false love turned true .
very well.
your dog - like spirit that must have been ruled by a wolf hanged for killing a human ,  his evil soul falling quickly even from the gallows ,  and ,  while you lay in your unholy mother ,  sent itself into you ,  because your desires are wolfish ,  bloody ,  starved ,  and hungry .
i’ll go back to sleep now .
it is my wretched luck .
i hope you sleep peacefully .
my lord ,  i will use them according to their class .
it is important that the moor should be more than reason; but if she is less than an honest woman ,  she is indeed more than i took her for .
meet me down at the harbor . —come here .
i wish my daughter were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear; i wish she were trained at my feet, and the dollars in her coffin!
he want to know if will play with laertes now ,  or whether you will take a longer time .
no ,  i’m sure it has ,  volumnius .
if ever you disturb our streets again, you will suffer the death penalty for breaking the peace.
it’s his handwriting ,  my lord ,  but i hope he didn’t mean what he wrote .
that’s him ,  that villain romeo .
and i had to be away from home !
you shall see many a duteous and knee - bending rogue that ,  doting on his own obedient slavery ,  wears himself out ,  much like his master's ass ,  for nothing but dry oats; and when he's old ,  dismissed from the service .
a lot of words .
she’ll fall madly in love with the first thing she sees when she wakes up—even if it’s a lion ,  a bear ,  a wolf ,  a bull ,  a monkey ,  or an ape .
you have done a deed ,  i don’t care about your sword; i'll make you famous ,  although i lose twenty lives .
your fat king and your lean beggar interchangeable ,  two dishes but for one table .
good morning ,  worthy caesar .
there's the respect that makes a mess of long life, for who would bear the whips and scorns of time, the oppressor's wrong, the proud man's insults, the pangs of rejected love, the law's delay, the inexperience of office, and the disdain that patient merit takes from the unworthy, when he himself might his final settlement make with a bare, sharp knife?
if you dare to fight today, come to the field; if not, come when you’ve got stomachs.
so tell me what’s been going on .
and then he was offered it the third time; he pushed it aside the third time ,  and still ,  as he refused it ,  the crowd shouted ,  and clapped their rough hands ,  and threw their sweaty night hats into the air ,  and uttered such a great deal of stinking breath because caesar refused the crown ,  that the smell almost choked caesar ,  because he fainted and fell down from it .
first ,  i ask you what they’ve done; thirdly ,  i ask you what offense they’re charged with; sixth and lastly ,  i ask you why they’ve been committed here; and ,  in conclusion ,  i ask what they’re accused of .
leave us alone for a little while .
now margaret’s curse has fallen on our heads ,  for standing by and doing nothing when richard stabbed her son .
so let her execute me .
i never caused her any harm ,  as far as i know .
it cannot be called our mother ,  only our grave .
that i don’t trust you .
an eagle, madam, is not as green, as quick, and hasn’t so beautiful an eye as paris has.
i beg you to pay a visit right away to my son ,  who’s changed too much .
trust to it .
one word more ,  good lady .
o honey nurse, what news?
thank you .
my clerk has some good comforts for you ,  too .
it is gone !
and here’s regan ,  whose grotesque face betrays her twisted heart .
you imply that married men are fools .
rosencrantz and guildenstern are still going to england .
oh ,  will you ,  a dark - natured man ,  leave me ?
what do you mean by being so stupidly fond like this on such goods?
there’s very little about her that’s gloomy ,  my lord .
i haven’t slept since cassius first began to turn me against caesar .
what do you think you’re doing ?
if she welcomes him and his hundred knights after i’ve shown how inappropriately he’s behaved— here ,  ma'am .
yes ,  caesar ?
is he standing or sitting ?
what ,  all my pretty chickens and their mother at one fell swoop ?
may one be forgiven a sin and still hold on to its benefits?
well ,  go on your way ,  then .
if you fight to protect your wives ,  your wives will welcome you home as conquerors .
my deeds on my head !
yes, you certainly could pass for men, in the same way that hounds, and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs, shoughs, water-rugs, and demi-wolves are all the names of dogs.
consider then that we come but in scorn.
these two antipholuses ,  who look so alike—and these two dromios ,  who seem to have the same face—and her story of being shipwrecked—why ,  these two are the parents of these children and have been reunited by accident .
this man is that banished ,  arrogant montague that murdered my love's cousin ,  by which grief ,  it is supposed ,  the beautiful creature died ,  and he’s come here to desecrate the dead bodies .
lack of trust in my success has done this deed.
lysander ,  say something !
orlando .
is it so stated in the promise to pay?
o ,  hardness to lie !
hurry up, for fear my sword will be about your ears before you get yours out.
but first i’ll release the fairy queen from the spell .
ha !
here is the money .
where is the king ?
i heard him swear he did .
here he comes.
thank you for that joke .
i order you to speak!
room for antony ! —most noble antony !
god's blessings go with you; and with those that would make a good situation out of a bad one and friends of foes!
monster ,  i’ll kill this man .
who do you think you are ,  keeping me out of my own house ?
he is no crescent ,  and his horns are invisible within the circle .
she shall ,  lucentio .
let their beds be as soft as yours ,  and let them eat the same food as you ”  ?
ever since i’ve been a free agent in my choice of friends ,  i’ve chosen you because you take everything life hands you with calm acceptance ,  grateful for both good and bad .
no ,  if they try to lead us to harm ,  i will leave the dance floor at the next song .
do you need lime and hair to speak better?
so ,  slave: get going !
where did she get that light ?
where’s the king ?
do you note me?
go away and take your children .
what’s the matter ?
and may.
this island contains everything beneficial to life .
hurry up ,  robin ,  and make the night dark and cloudy .
why, what's the matter?
i will do more ,  though nothing i can do is any good since this remorse comes after the crime ,  asking for pardon .
how dangerous is it that this man goes loose !
and he fixed his eyes on you?
be kind to her .
it is he .
but i guess it doesn’t matter .
here comes another jew: we cannot match them, unless the devil himself turn jew.
whether you’re a good spirit or a cursed demon ,  whether you bring heavenly breezes or blasts of hell fire ,  whether your intentions are good or evil ,  you look so strange i want to talk to you .
receive all the blessings of a happy father .
you’re older than me .
oh ,  my old master ! —who tied him up ?
are you joking ?
yes ,  petruchio .
i know he holds me dear ,  but i haven’t asked him about the coronation ,  and he hasn’t told me .
how many, do you guess?
it is  “ music with her silver sound ”  because musicians have no gold for making sounds .
come one ,  woman !
i wish my horse moved as fast as your mouth and was as tireless .
she dropped it carelessly ,  and ,  seizing the opportunity ,  since i was here ,  i picked it up .
me too ,  my lord .
i wish i had never married my daughter there!
where should we meet?
an evil soul using a holy story is like a criminal who smiles at you .
go away !
i myself will board the ship right away and go to the state to relate his heavy act with heavy heart.
lead us away.
don’t misunderstand me ,  sir .
i can hit quickly ,  if i’m motivated .
nonsense !
i am amazed ,  and don’t know what to say .
cobweb.
i want more uncles here to welcome me .
you stay on the left .
thank you for asking ,  uncle .
what is it you demand ?
now you know why we’re in a hurry.
that must be because you’re so ambitious .
how can it be?
bring him home with triumph to his house .
but it’s dark out ,  and it could be a trap .
within a month ,  before the salt of the most wicked tears had left the redness in her bitter eyes ,  she married .
she was false as water .
i hope you will consider that what i have spoken comes from my love; but i see you're upset.
her blood has stopped ,  and her joints are stiff .
calm down ,  sir ,  please .
that same villain romeo .
varro and claudius !
macbeth !
seneca cannot be too heavy nor plautus too light .
oh sir ,  i accept .
they did want me to tell her ,  but i persuaded them that ,  if they truly loved benedick ,  they would try to get him to battle his emotions and keep beatrice in the dark .
did you hear this, gonzalo?
here lies the water ,  good .
i swear to god ,  if i hadn’t seen this with my own eyes i’d never believe it .
but if you have sex with her before the marriage ceremony takes place ,  the heavens will not bless your relationship ,  but will overwhelm you with hate ,  contempt ,  and discord ,  and will poison your marriage bed so that you both grow to loathe it .
and so will i .
i will not stay to offend you .
i swear i will never break this promise of love .
words before blows .
don’t you remember how he saw a flea land on bardolph’s nose and said it was a black soul burning in hell ?
i’m just saying that if you’re good and beautiful ,  your goodness should have nothing to do with your beauty .
so that you shall surely find him ,  lead these searchers to the sagittary inn ,  and i will be there with him .
speak, if you hear me; speak, of all loves!
i’ll spend tonight working to make something horrible happen .
it means being full of sighs and tears ,  like i am for phoebe .
it’ll be ok .
what would you like ,  sir ?
who’s that coming ?
honest nurse ,  farewell .
couple it with something; make it a word and a blow .
i wear it with pride ,  for i am welsh you know ,  good countryman .
these vows are just traps for stupid birds .
soldier ,  you must come to the king .
as they pass by ,  grab casca by the sleeve ,  and he’ll tell you if anything important happened today—in his usual sour way .
yet brutus says he was ambitious; and brutus is an honorable man .
oh ,  is that kent ?
any comfort he gets is like cold oatmeal .
i’m all right .
then go to work .
true, my lord.
don’t worry ,  baptista ,  you’ll be perfectly satisfied .
horatio says it’s all in our imagination, and doesn’t believe a word we say about this dreaded sight, seen twice by us.
o ,  these outbursts and jerky shaking ,  impostors of true fear ,  would well become a woman's story at a winter's fire ,  confirmed by her grandmother .
i get great comfort from this fellow.
by nine o'clock .
yes ,  a prophet !
let’s go ,  then !
i beg you ,  horatio ,  tell me one thing .
you’re really on time.
go and tell them this .
why did you leave wife and child in that rawness ,  those precious motives ,  those strong knots of love ,  without leave - taking ?
but despite all this ,  your daughters will give you a lot of money—or do i mean pain ? —in the coming year .
is that true ?
he knows that you didn’t embrace antony because you loved him ,  but because you feared him .
if she returns my jewels ,  i’ll stop pursuing her and apologize to her .
stop there !
well ,  lead on .
are englishmen really such heavy drinkers ?
all right ,  but first let the ambassadors speak .
there the men are as crazy as he is.
why did this have to happen now ?
most ungrateful maid !
look at your wife; observe her well with cassio; wear your eye like this, not jealous or secure.
mend me, you rude fellow!
oh ,  right ,  good catesby .
my money’s almost run out .
she is daughter to this famous duke of milan, who i have so often heard has a great reputation, but that i never saw before; of whom i have received a second life: and this lady makes him a second father to me.
if cassio lives ,  he has a daily beauty in his life that makes me ugly; and besides ,  the moor may disclose me to him; i stand there in great danger; no ,  he must die .
demetrius, i'll swear it on his head, pursued nedar's daughter, helena, the same way, and won her soul; and she, sweet lady, loves, devoutly loves, loves to the point of divine worship, this spotted and inconstant man.
how can you test them like that ?
you should’ve saved me some trouble and taken it away yourself .
the raven himself is hoarse with croaking about the fatal entrance of duncan under my castle walls.
i wish you could face your bad news like a man !
aside] it goes just the way ,  i see ,  that my soul wants it . —spirit ,  fine spirit !
someone who makes a promise and breaks it .
but if you live to see yourself similarly denied your rights ,  this foolish patience will abandon you .
ha ?
six pence a day would’ve been forced on him .
i’ll drink to hamlet’s health ,  and into his goblet i’ll drop a pearl even more costly than those in the crowns of the last four danish kings .
that light we see is coming from my hall .
destiny ,  tell us what comes next .
have you killed tybalt?
oh ,  that’s ominous !
don’t be afraid .
and so every slave has in his own hand the power to cancel his captivity.
that sounds like the voice of friar john .
if there are any, speak, because i have offended him.
for your sake, jewel, i am glad at soul i have no other child, because your escape would teach me tyranny, to hang logs on them.
send for the count .
meet me at the palace as soon as possible .
he is very changed .
it is the east ,  and juliet is the sun .
let’s hear someone play the triangle and the sticks .
no one shows mercy because he has to .
how fine my master is !
stop !
what you say may be true, because my face is not mine.
seven days and nights?
i really hope your virtues will bring him to his usual way again, to the honor of both of you.
i won’t hide unless all the mist from my heartsick groans envelopes me like fog and conceals me from people’s searching eyes .
what is this here ?
i may dismiss this court by my power, unless bellario, a learned doctor, whom i have sent for to determine this, comes here today.
goneril with a white beard ?
i can only repeat what i’ve said before .
why aren’t the leaves withering now that the sap is all dried up ?
gentlemen ,  gentlemen—   gentlemen ,  don’t speak .
come on .
indeed ,  they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw on a crust of bread when he was two hours old .
beautiful portia's picture!
i have another plan to make my bird come to me and recognize her owner’s call is to keep her from sleeping—
do you know the difference ,  my boy ,  between a bitter fool and a sweet one ?
you naughty, deceitful man, what’s your trade?
the concern sir ?
then the window lets day in ,  and life goes out the window .
where should i fly ?
my wife!
with her, on her, whatever you want to think.
oh ,  let me speak !
to know my deed ,  it’s best not know myself .
i’m glad about it .
o murderous slave !
again “banished?” stop with the philosophy!
ah me !
that means it’s more likely to be fake .
do you see this sweet sight ?
run barefoot up and down ,  threatening the flames with blind tears ,  a cloth on that head where lately the crown had stood ,  and for a robe ,  about her thin loins ,  exhausted from child - bearing ,  a blanket ,  caught up in the panic of fear ,  whoever had seen this ,  with a very poisoned tongue ,  would have pronounced treason against fortune's state .
look ,  sir ,  i’m bleeding .
you need to leave to take care of your own business .
can your man keep a secret ?
your daughter and son - in - law .
i heard that apollodorus carried—   what did he carry ,  please ?
after you die, it would be better to have a bad epitaph then than their ill report while you live now.
fight ?
the duke greets you ,  general; and he requires your super - speedy appearance this instant .
wasn’t he friends with all those brawling knights who serve my father ?
we don’t know .
if you married my sister for her wealth ,  then for her wealth’s sake ,  treat her with more kindness .
on ,  on ,  you noblest englishmen ,  descended as you are from battle - tested fathers ,  fathers who ,  like so many alexander the greats ,  have fought in these regions from morning until night ,  sheathing their swords only when there was no one left to fight .
yes ,  yes .
alas ,  that love ,  whose eyes are blindfolded ,  should ,  without eyes ,  see ways to have his will done .
what are these things with shrunken skin and wild clothes ,  that don’t look not like they live on earth ,  only are still on it ?
these foolish drops drown my manly spirit somewhat; goodbye !
help, help, ho!
oh, these deliberate fools!
there it is .
this business is well ended.
hold on a second .
well ,  so - so .
we don’t come, as we mean to content you, is our true intent.
pretty ophelia!
it’s much better to be destroyed by a noble enemy than by a cruel and heartless one .
give me some light !
for us and for our tragedy ,  here stooping to your clemency ,  we beg you listen patiently .
a skull, whose empty eye has a written scroll in it!
i’ve worked it out .
what’s she doing now ?
no ,  instead i’ll go to benedick and advise him to fight his emotions .
saddle up my horses .
then if he says he loves you ,  you would be wise to believe it because then being in his particular act and place may do what he says ,  which is what the majority of people in of denmark go along with .
some french agents are already at work in our main ports and are on the verge of declaring open war .
who are you?
be assured ,  good cassio ,  i will do all i can in your behalf .
even if the news is sad ,  tell me with a smile on your face .
but have you touched the athenian's eyes with the love-juice yet, as i told you to?
the drop of affliction often causes doubt about all the virtues they have to men’s own disgrace.
i could make the same boast even if i had a pig as my mistress .
the hay.
how is it with you, my lord?
seen too early as an unknown ,  and now known too late !
yes ,  at philippi .
yes .
then crush this herb into lysander's eye; its juice has the virtuous property of removing all error from his eyes and will make his eyeballs roll with correct sight .
from then on we’ll turn our backs on athens .
but tell me ,  are you speaking seriously ?
i hope you’ll be a good father to me now .
hurry ,  send someone immediately !
transform your grief into anger .
thanks, guildenstern and gentle rosencrantz.
i shall win at the odds.
if we happen to offend you ,  it’s because we want to .
he smiles so much his face has more lines in it than a map of the east indies .
but if you see a wheel going uphill ,  latch on for the ride .
yes ,  fashion is fashion .
you’re acting like an ass ,  don’t you think ?
she drinks wine just like everyone else .
that was a poor unlucky beggar .
who deserted this morning ?
this is the house where lorenzo wanted us to wait .
farewell .
the fish lives in the sea; and it takes a lot of pride for beauty outside to hide without beauty inside.
here it is, i think.
got it ?
he just said that they’re no good at acting .
don’t be afraid of greatness .  ”  that was well written .
you drank it all and didn’t leave just a friendly drop to help me join you ?
i had my father’s signet ring in my pocket ,  with the royal seal of denmark on it .
in this last storm .
we’re not getting any younger .
oh ,  she’s slow !
i'll call upon you in a minute .
it’s casca—i know your voice .
at my lodging .
please, recognize me when we meet again: i wish you well, and so i say goodbye.
what ,  not even to pray ?
the pox of such antic, lisping, affecting absurd and irrational people; these new tuners of accents!
the graceful and renowned king is dead .
that will require some tears in the true performance of it.
and nothing in your letters was written about her?
yet brutus says he was ambitious; and ,  sure ,  he’s an honorable man .
no safety?
who is he that follows there ,  the one who wouldn’t dance ?
i don’t speak well ,  and i am little blessed with the soft phrase of peace because ,  since these arms of mine were seven years' old ,  until now some nine months past ,  they have used their dearest actions on the battlefield; and i can speak little of this great world ,  only what relates to feats of war and battle; and therefore i shall grace my cause little by speaking for myself .
the duke will drink under this tree . —he’s been looking for you all day ,  you know .
read this petition .
i’ll leave now ,  to set all these things right .
i think so .
one bit of land will be a pillow for us both; one heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one trust.
you’ve killed an innocent woman ,  and you’re going to pay dearly for her death .
tell him i’ll take the leek out of his hat on saint davy’s day and slap his head with it .
this is the silliest thing i’ve ever seen .
to have no hope that he is drowned is another way to have such a high hope ,  that even ambition can’t see beyond it ,  but defies belief .
my lord of warwick ,  a most corrupt treason—god be praised for it ! —has been discovered ,  as plain as any you’d hope to see on a summer’s day .
i’m going far enough that i’ll be riding from now until dinner .
so.
a little bit of grief shows a lot of love .
she is banished .
draw your sword: one stroke shall free you from the taxes which you pay, and i the king shall be devoted to you.
you coward, are you bragging to the stars, telling the bushes that you look for wars, but will not fight one?
ah ha !
no ,  i will .
i swear i thought you meant you’d been hurt physically .
you wrong me ,  brutus .
come on !  .
maybe she can’t find him .
what concern are they ?
but i have to remember that i’m here on earth ,  where doing evil is often praised ,  and doing good is sometimes a stupid and dangerous mistake .
speaking for myself—and no offense to the general or anyone else—i hope i’m going to heaven .
what’s the problem that caesar and his senate must fix ?
who is your lord ?
what else do you see in the old, dark, bottomless pit of time?
love !
i hereby grant your request ,  and hope you have a good time .
the spring ,  the summer ,  the pregnant autumn ,  and angry winter change their usual clothes; and the amazed world ,  now doesn’t know which is which by their apparel .
don’t go out today .
caesar is listening .
don’t kneel ,  noble portia .
amen ,  amen !
well ,  then ,  put your sword away .
not one ,  my lord .
damn it ,  you may partly hope that your father had not fathered you ,  that you are not the jew's daughter .
lady olivia told her servant malvolio to kick you out of the house .
i must get his belongings ashore .
a king of shreds and patches !
baby blooms are most susceptible to disease .
i sincerely hope it does you good ,  mangy rascal .
you’ve kept away from me for a week ?
swear.
my lord ,  there wasn’t any such stuff in my thoughts .
what is it you said?
yes ,  husband .
if the other two are as loopy as we are ,  our country’s in bad shape .
the food that is now as luscious as locusts to him shall be shortly be as bitter as the bitter apple drug.
nature took helen’s  cleopatra’s majesty ,  the best of atalanta ,  and unhappy lucretia’s modesty .
yes ,  it’s just clothing .
my sweet ,  so do i .
and because you interrupt us so that we can’t dance for them ,  the winds have made fogs rise up out of the sea and fall down on the rivers so that the rivers flood ,  just to get revenge on you .
now comes the lusty blood up in your cheeks ,  they'll be bright red instantly at any news .
his son is older ,  sir; his son is thirty .
it’s as easy as lying.
look ,  the precious desdemona has arrived on shore .
signed ,  she who would be your servant ,      the fortunate unhappy .  ”  this is as clear as sunlight in an open field .
the devil inside him is rough ,  but we can’t treat it roughly .
all right then ,  confess and live .
where is our usual manager of mirth?
murder !
lorenzo, and your love.
i am not drunk now; i can stand well enough, and i speak well enough.
it was of some nobility.
for the table, sir, it shall be served in; for the meat, sir, it shall be covered; for your coming in to dinner, sir, why, let it be as sense and meaning shall determine.
have you forgotten her?
let me see: “who chooses me shall gain what many men desire.” what many men desire!
romeo ,  throw your name away; and for that name ,  which isn’t part of you ,  take all of me .
has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at grave-digging?
why did i just send you home ?
romeo is hateful ,  even though god isn’t .
most unholy murder has broken open the lord's anointed temple ,  and then stolen the life of the building .
listen!
a greater power than we can contradict has opposed our plans .
now ,  you tell me: should i feel loyal to the moor ?
cassius falls as low as your foot ,  to beg freedom for publius cimber .
what do you want from me ,  my good man ?
can you imagine being hitched to a lump of clay ?
no, it is four months, my lord.
please ,  go on .
what is she going to do here?
i kiss the instrument of their desires.
i’ll be waiting, a thousand times good night!
there i shall test, in my speech, how the people takethe cruel actions of these bloody men; once i know that, you shall tell young octavius the state of things.
thank you ,  brave cassio .
i say a devil .
the king stays awake tonight and has a drinking party, keeps toasting, and the swaggering morning whirls, and, as he drinks down his drafts of rhine wine, the kettle-drum and trumpet thus noisily announce the triumph of his drinking it all down at once.
he came to scatter flowers on his lady's grave ,  and asked me to stand off to the side ,  and so i did .
you haven’t said anything against the duke of cornwall ,  have you ?
let the earth hide you !
there's never a villain dwelling in all denmark except that he's an arrant knave.
your horn is a foot long ,  and i’m at least that size .
aside] poor worm !
i'll break my spells, i'll restore their senses, and they shall be themselves again.
i’m your evil spirit ,  brutus .
you certainly bar the door to your own freedom if you don’t tell your problems to your friend .
what ,  are you afraid ?
i hope now you aren’t drowned .
will you think so?
how oddly you reply!
hey ,  if i’d remembered something about him ,  i could have had a good comeback for my uncle ,  touching on his growth worse than he touched on mine .
get up ,  liar .
you who are so skilled in cursing ,  stay awhile and teach me how to curse my enemies .
who’s there ?
i’d rather break my own heart .
i beg you, hurry.
i saw bassanio and antonio say goodbye .
i don’t wish to have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body .
do so ,  good messala .
i will look for the king.
and that will save a partridge wing from being eaten ,  because he’ll be too miserable for dinner .
a metaphor .
bear this body away, and wait for our instructions.
yes ,  he said something in greek .
out of the moon ,  i assure you: i was the man in the moon ,  a long time ago .
i won’t be eating at home; i have to meet the captains at the fortress.
grumio gave the order for how it should be done .
yes ,  hand me one too .
what kind of woman is she ?
this is my daughter's dowry ,  for i can command no more .
who comes with him ?
i sell you poison; you haven’t sold me any .
the air smells light and sweet to our gentle senses.
why are you up now?
your lips are warm !
groan ?
the same to you ,  my lord !
romeo !
i will confess it to all the world .
hide behind the boxwood hedge ,  all three of you .
are you wise?
he’ll think these letters are from olivia and that she’s in love with him .
truly, a great arithmetician, one michael cassio, a florentine, a fellow almost damned in a having a beautiful wife; that has never led a squadron in the field, and doesn’t know the division of a battle any more than a spinster does, unless the theory books, in which the consuls wearing togas can propose a plan as masterly as he can.
you have taken a very just exception against me; but still ,  i protest ,  i have dealt very directly concerning your affair .
my fair bianca ,  bid my father welcome ,  while i with equal affection welcome yours .
get ready for the third hit ,  laertes .
in faith ,  i will .
is your name goneril ?
my love forgives him so ,  that even his stubbornness ,  his checks ,  his frowns ,  i beg you ,  unpin my hair ,  have grace and favor in them .
are your tears wet ?
if you could ,  you couldn’t bring him back to life .
i dreamt about this .
yes ,  sir ,  it’s all too true ,  god help us .
oh ,  dear .
good father ,  i’m begging you on my knees ,  be patient and listen to me say just one thing .
look ,  where he goes ,  even now out the door !
the exchange of your love's faithful vow for mine.
yes ,  i’ll grant you that .
four legs and two voices—a very special monster .
yes, madam, that’s the way it goes.
he asked me to give his father this letter, and threatened me with death, going into the tomb, if i didn’t leave, and i left him there.
no ,  not a bit .
stop !
as for him ,  i never think about him .
you would be ,  sweet madam ,  if your miseries were as abundant as your good fortunes are; and yet ,  for all i see ,  they that are sick from over - eating are as sick as those that starve with nothing .
i’ll lie down here and measure out my grave .
i’ll tell my husband what you’ve said ,  launcelot .
like love ,  my lord ,  before it learns to love .
that wicked jew got the duke to listen to his complaints .
i won’t listen to you .
o ,  this evil wind that spreads nothing but misery .
no ,  i’ll prove it with airtight evidence and logical argument .
how is my lady doing ?
you knew—no one knew ,  no one knew as well as you did—about my daughter’s plans to run away .
please save me a piece of marzipan; and because you love me ,  let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell .
well ,  do what you want .
but age, with his stealing steps, has clawed me in his clutch, and has shipped me until the land, as if i had never been such.
grief of my son's exile has killed her .
what is pyramus ?
if you could hurt us ,  your swords are now too heavy for your strengths ,  and won’t be lifted up .
flee ?
you aren’t joking ?
go ,  go to your love ,  as was decreed ,  ascend to her chamber there ,  and comfort her .
my mistress titania is in love with a monster .
why dover ?
i never knew a woman could love man so.
i don’t like him, and it doesn’t seem to be safe to us to let his craziness run free.
no ?
i will not stay to offend you.
hey ,  grumio !
let’s go find him and cheer him up .
also add a tiger's guts ,  for the ingredients of our caldron .
i would do a lot to reconcile them, for the love i bear to cassio.
let’s talk .
next time god sends out a shipment of hair ,  i hope he gives you a beard !
but here’s the plan: our army will stay with us on the hills by the city .
have things been quiet on your watch?
good duke ,  come receive your daughter .
oh lorenzo ,  if you keep your promise to me ,  i’ll end this agony by becoming a christian and marrying you .
o, that's an honest fellow.
a trumpet within.
did he ask macduff ?
hold off your compliments for awhile and pay attention, until i may deliver, with the witness of these gentlemen, something marvelous to you.
oh ,  lady ,  speak again .
i’ll go straight for that proverb with  “ to hell with the devil .  ”  you are better at proverbs than i am by as much as  “ a fool shoots quickly and overshoots his mark .  ”  you have overshot .
life, living — death has it all.
rise up as you would from your graves, and walk like spirits to see this horror!
what time of the day is it ?
in truth ,  i think i should; and undo it when i had done .
if you be he ,  sir ,  i desire some confidence with you .
if any wretch has put this in your head ,  let heaven repay them with the serpent's curse !
oh ,  please be true ,  please let it be that this man has mistaken me for you ,  my dear brother !
you speak your whole part all at once ,  cues ,  and all . —pyramus enter .
i hope you enjoy the same sweet peace and rest i feel in my heart .
he’s married .
goodbye .
you told me that you don’t salute at the court but kiss hands .
yield ,  or you die .
murder ,  murder !
it is “music with her silver sound” because musicians have no gold for making sounds.
here comes newer comfort.
i tell you ,  man ,  it’s better for me ,  too ,  than the last time we met here .
here comes the furious tybalt back again .
remember march, remember the fifteenth of march?
put it together with something else .
i believe i have some choice in the matter ,  sir .
how tall is she ?
but that is a false conclusion ,  since we have locks to keep our valuables safe and clever traps to catch little thieves .
i’m not like you .
why should that name be sounded any more than yours ?
i’m saying it to the girl who isn’t here and doesn’t hear me .
if love is blind ,  love can’t find the spot .
i couldn’t pay my debt to the jew on the due date .
caesar ,  all hail !
follow ”  ?
by foul play ,  as you say ,  we were lifted from there ,  but blessedly helped here .
we failed in half of our mission .
or ,  rather ,  do i not ,  in plainest truth ,  tell you i do not and cannot love you ?
i’ve only been hurt ,  not killed .
that way ,  the maiden that stood between me and them shall be the means of my achieving my desire .
indeed ,  honor is what i want to talk to you about .
if all the wine in my bottle will help him ,  i will help his malaria .
i’ve separated them into groups around the island ,  just as you ordered .
i have a rumor of fire, that i would gladly spread, before this news puts the fire out.
when you see a huge wheel rolling down a hill ,  you shouldn’t try to hold on to it or it’ll break your neck .
yes ,  i did; but she was only being polite .
when i was in school ,  when i had lost one arrow ,  i shot another one of identical length in an identical way ,  with more thoughtful care ,  to find the one i lost ,  and by risking both ,  i often found both .
even so great men should endure great losses.
while you were being overwhelmed here by your grief, a passion very unsuitable to such a man, cassio came here.
i don’t expect caesar and antony will have a very friendly reunion .
to bed ,  to bed !
they are from norway, sir.
but now i’ll grit my teeth and kill anyone who tries to stop me .
madam, it is, as long as you are pleased with the rest of it.
now go to the door, and stay there until we call.
i give him curses ,  but he gives me love .
isn’t that the reason you told me all this ?
for god’s sake ,  sir toby ,  you’ve got to come home earlier at night .
did you know him?
please ,  just wait a minute .
oh ,  my lady ,  i’m ashamed to admit it .
that’s noble of you ,  master .
why ,
everything is gloomy ,  dark ,  and dreadful .
take time to think about it; and ,  by the next new moon , — the wedding day of my love and me ,  for the everlasting bond of fellowship , — on that day either prepare to die because you have disobeyed your father's will; or else marry demetrius ,  as your father wants you to; or accept the austerity and single life of a nun .
why do you cry?
aside .
what an irreplaceable and grievous loss !
well, juliet, i’ll sleep with you tonight.
that will tell you a lot .
he’s like a cowardly
tell me in sadness who is that you love ?
now i am in debt to my enemy .
a south-west wind blow on you, and blister you all over!
you may do what you want to, but i say he's a tried and valiant soldier.
come to my cave and tell me the rest of your story . —good old man ,  you are as welcome here as your master is .
now i’ll stand up .
you can’t stay here any longer .
what’s that sound ?
we answered them ,  blow for blow .
to all, our thanks.
virtue is beauty ,  but someone beautiful and wicked is like an empty box decorated by the devil .
isn’t parchment made of sheep - skins ?
the queen drinks to your fortune, hamlet.
thank you ,  dear nurse .
i’m sure you do .
now that we’re near enough ,  throw the branch down ,  and look like the men you are .
farewell, father.
i’ll do my best to obey you, madam.
kingdoms and provinces dropped from his pockets like loose change .
from this point forward ,  i will always obey you .
i swear on my life i won’t tell your secret .
but whatever sorrow can come, it cannot equal the exchange of joy that one short minute in her sight gives me.
speak; tell me.
it’s true ,  my lords ,  he did .
i’ll wear this one and none other .
who ,  me ,  my lord ?
it is ,  it is .
i hope so; i was not born to die on brutus' sword .
but i'll tighten the strings that make this music, until it’s as honest as i am.
i think, in faith, she loves me.
let's get going and do the murder first.
you can’t eat capons that way .
i will .
is there anyone to give the bride away ?
now there can only be the promise .
hamlet, for this deed, for your special safety, which we do consider as we dearly grieve for what you’ve done, we must send you away with fiery quickness.
listen .
what’s the matter ?
pale as your smock !
i’ve got some business to take care of .
and, o you mortal device, whose rude throats pretend to be the immortal jove's dread clamors, farewell!
you are banished away from verona.
how oddly he is dressed !
just watch !
i’ll stand ,  and so will trinculo .
no ,  monster ,  not me .
it doesn’t make either of us happy ,  i know .
in this house lives a man who despises all that is good in you .
we’ll speak again tomorrow .
when the day comes ,  i’ll wish it were nighttime ,  so i could sleep with the legal expert’s clerk .
what have i done ,  that you dare scream at me so loudly and rudely ?
i will bring you there.
i have heard the rooster ,  that is the trumpet of the morning ,  with his lofty and shrill - sounding throat ,  awakes the god of day ,  and ,  at his warning ,  whether in sea or fire ,  in earth or air ,  the straying and wandering spirit hurries back to his grave .
i will not trust you, i won’t; and i’ll stay in your cursed company no longer.
you’re a spirit ,  i know .
he’s welcome here .
hail, king of scotland!
take this .
startle even the sky with the sound of your lances cracking .
when i said that ,  i was angry too .
if you were civil and had any manners ,  you wouldn’t insult me so much like this .
on what compulsion must i ?
as for the jew’s contract ,  don’t let it be a factor in your plans .
no ,  not an oath .
you’ve pretended to be in love with her ,  singing fake love songs softly at her window by moonlight ,  and you’ve captured her imagination by giving her locks of your hair ,  rings ,  toys ,  trinkets ,  knickknacks ,  little presents ,  flowers ,  and candies—things that can really influence an impressionable young person .
sweetheart ,  goodbye !
but where was this?
casca will tell us what’s the matter .
is that really what you meant ?
who would bear these burdens to grunt and sweat under a weary life ,  except that the dread of something after death ,  the undiscovered country ,  from whose borders no traveler returns ,  puzzles the mind ,  and makes us bear those problems we have rather than fly to others that we don’t know about ?
we’ll do our duty to you ,  sir .
here’s more insanity for us .
iago, look carefully about the town, and silence those whom this vile brawl has upset.
take your penalty.
beware the ides of march.
you know that i strongly held epicurus ,  and his opinion .
that will require some tears in the true performance of it .
yes ,  but now there’s no way to calm him down .
macbeth !
command this man to leave .
thank you .
i got it from him: pardon me, bassanio, because, by this ring, the doctor slept with me.
be happy that you’re alive .
i represent her .
shylock ,  although i don’t lend or borrow by taking or by giving excess money ,  still ,  to supply the urgent wants of my friend ,  i'll break a custom .
what ,  do you make us musicians ?
yes ,  from top to bottom ,  sir .
their understanding begins to increase, and the approaching tide of understanding will shortly fill the reasonable shores of their minds that are now corrupt and muddy.
if i’d been a common laborer and hadn’t taken him up on his offer ,  to hell with me .
oh ,  give us permission ,  great king ,  to search the field in safety and dispose of our dead bodies .
what do you think ?
the gods do this in shame of cowardice.
i was born and raised less than three hours from here .
well ,  by this i can see that you don’t love me as much as i love you .
so go out there and give him what he wants .
we passed them on the way, and they are coming here to perform.
i would’ve given it to you this morning ,  but a madman’s letters aren’t gospel ,  so it doesn’t matter much if i’m a bit late .
if you have tears ,  prepare to shed them now .
yes ,  by mary ,  they are ,  sir .
like gambling ,  sir ?
i beg you ,  continue .
before i fall asleep ,  i entrust my soul to you .
nymph ,  in your eyes may all my sins be remembered .
i spoke with a frenchman yesterday who said that a venetian ship loaded with treasure was wrecked in the english channel .
dearly, my delicate ariel.
the one i gave you .
age is the thing that nourishes .
and to me ,  denmark is a prison .
you’re a man with a good reputation .
we can be happy that things have been resolved so agreeably .
they would be better sentences ,  if you followed them well .
forgotten you !
did they make you the messenger ?
really ,  niece ,  you’ll never get a husband if you keep saying such harsh things about people .
your royal father's murdered.
if he doesn’t like it ,  he can go live with my sister .
now you know, casca, i have already persuaded some certain of the noblest-minded romans to join me in an undertaking of honorable/dangerous consequence; and i know by this, they are waiting for me in pompey's porch.
oh ,  darling phoebe ,  if you ever fall in love with some fresh face ,  then you’ll know about the invisible wounds that love’s sharp arrows can make .
that’s him ,  madam .
i can only do it by lying ,  my lord ,  but i can do it so secretly that no one will suspect me .
i accept your devotion with my deepest love .
in my mind's eye ,  horatio .
come ,  night that closes the eyes ,  cover the tender eye of pitiful day; and ,  with your bloody and invisible hand ,  cancel and tear to pieces that great deed which keeps me pale !
for those of old ,  and the recent titles heaped on them ,  we remain your hermits .
hurry: you know where i’ll wait for you .
behold ,  here i lie ,  never to rise again .
come; brands, oh!
o ,  i wish she knew that she was my love !
and ,  gentle puck ,  take this donkey head off the head of this athenian lover ,  that when he wakes when the others do ,  all of them may go back to athens ,  thinking no more about tonight’s events than that they were parts of a dream .
alas, good gentleman!
i shook your hands for that reason; but i was really distracted from the point by looking down on caesar.
oh ,  brutus !
when he’s there next time ,  i’ll send my daughter to see him .
if love plays rough with you ,  play rough with  come on ,  let’s knock and go in .
yes ,  with a twink .
nerissa ,  cheer the stranger; say hello to her .
i agree ,  and then is death a benefit .
i assure you he can .
you wrong me every way, you wrong me, brutus.
really ,  i think your other ruff is better .
my lord ,  we were sent for .
i’ll go with you .
here comes a spirit of his ,  to torment me for bringing in wood too slowly .
only why stands macbeth in this way amazedly?
from tripolis, from mexico, and england, from lisbon, barbary, and india?
calphurnia’s face is pale ,  and cicero’s eyes are as red and fiery as they get when senators are arguing with him at the capitol .
we’re ready if our minds are ready .
it is a very deep oath.
of all the days in the year ,  i became a grave - maker the day that our last king hamlet overcame fortinbras .
you know ,  uncle ,  a sparrow once raised a cuckoo in its nest until the cuckoo grew up and bit the sparrow’s head off .
farewell happiness !
the king has been informed of all their plans ,  but they have no idea .
this scene is chaotic.
by the lord ,  horatio ,  these three years i have noted that the age is grown so picky that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier ,  he hurts his feelings .
he’ll be like this for a little while .
i’m sure you and my husband will be as friendly as you were before .
you’re getting in the way of our work .
what early tongue so sweetly salutes me ?
but look ,  cassius ,  caesar looks angry and everyone else looks as if they’ve been scolded .
what is it ?
why ,  i’ll see you at philippi ,  then .
no, bigger!
it was carried to colmekill to be placed in the tomb of his ancestors ,  where their bones are kept safe .
now ,  what’s the news in the marketplace ?
here let them lie until famine and the plague eat them up .
don’t spend any more time here .
would i send a lie ?
aren’t you embarrassed?
what can he say about this?
oh ,  you prophesied that the time would come when i would want your help in cursing that humpbacked spider ,  that hideous toad !
it’s not my fault he acts like that ,  helena .
i'll put it on .
do i blame nature for being so thrifty ?
what, is antonio here?
do you think they’re married ?
the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to laertes before you start to play.
then you have to say ,   “ i take you ,  rosalind ,  to be my lawfully wedded wife .  ”  i take you ,  rosalind ,  to be my lawfully wedded wife .
why did he do that ?
i’m sure i’ll feel guilty if i run away from this jew ,  my master .
hippolyta ,  i got you by waging war with you ,  and made you love me by doing you injuries; but i will marry you in a different way ,  with pomp ,  with triumph ,  and with partying !
beat him up .
but yet the pity of it, iago!
and here he is .
i won’t be satisfied until i get even with him ,  wife for wife .
oh ,  sad day !
you speak absolutely correctly ,  sir .
lack of trust in good success has done this deed .
away !
you killed my child .
gentlemen, my master antonio is at his house, and wants to speak with both of you.
but is he often like this ?
i have a list of all the important men .
they haven’t been commanded to go to the west ,  mighty king .
and now he’s gone .
have you conspired, have you contrived with these men to bait me with this disgusting insult?
now he’s a little crooked .
yes ,  my lord .
cram your good news into my ears .
i was engaged to her before i ever met hermia .
statilius showed the torchlight ,  but ,  my lord ,  he didn’t come back .
as woman's love.
and you ,  good farmers ,  whose limbs were made in england ,  show us here the vigor of your upbringing .
i hang onto your thoughts.
my mask is like the roof of the poor
why ,  i do .
do you mark that?
curly golden hair moves so nicely in the wind and makes a woman beautiful .
this lantern represents the moon .
banquo!
he is definitely not there ,  sir .
what could i hope to get from you ,  who’ve got nothing but your charm to support you in life ?
meet me at the synagogue .
let a dew as wicked as any my mother brushed from a polluted bog with raven's feather fall on both of you!
it is your music, madam, from the house.
halt !
as i!
do as you please ,  because i’m done worrying about you .
i don’t know you .
my lord ,  we were sent for .
they swore that you were sick with love for me .
yes ,  probably ,  because i’m staying for lunch .
i’ll work on this, because i can give his state of mind true purpose, and i’ll bring him to the capitol.
o ,  you will speak again of banishment .
you’re smiling ?
pretty ophelia !
the phrase would be more german to the matter if we could carry cannons by our sides .
this  “ nothing ”  is more than just a story .
we took this chisel-edged pick and this shovel from him as he was coming from this side of the churchyard.
take care of the lady .
short but still tedious ?
the folly of this island !
then both my grief and your sorrow will be cured .
damn it ,  this isn’t funny .
it is some meteor that the sun spits out to be a torch-bearer for you tonight and light your way to mantua.
well, maybe he’ll do her some good.
perhaps  what ,  my love ?
damn it ,  you’re not listening to me !
what do you say ?
ah ,  juliet ,  if the amount of your joy is heaped up like mine ,  and that your sense of right be more to adorn it with ,  then sweeten this neighboring air with your breath ,  and let rich music's language reveal the imagined happiness that we both receive in this dear meeting .
murder !
hamlet has polonius slain in insanity, and he has dragged him from his mother's bedroom.
that’s you ,  right ?
your two sons ?
it’s not morning yet .
when caesar was alive ,  even he wouldn’t dare anger me like this .
tonight we’ll have dinner .
who’s there ?
i’ll be getting my own figures together in the meantime .
not that i think you didn’t love your father ,  but because i know love is begun by time ,  and i see ,  in the ways of love ,  that time dampens the spark and fire of it .
i'll contact your man, and he shall bring, from time to time, news to you of every good event that happens here.
say something ,  man !
now we wear the wreaths of victory on our heads .
but we can talk more about that tomorrow ,  when we’ll discuss matters of state that concern us both .
servant, go hire me twenty great cooks.
the wood of birnam .
why?
kind tyrrel ,  will your news make me happy ?
call in the messengers sent from the dauphin .
she instructs me well.
this is a good agreement .
good night .
on the condition that publius shall not live ,  who is your nephew ,  mark antony .
it looks great .
if you are a devil ,  i cannot kill you .
what do you have to say to me now ?
gentlemen!
since you love money and power so much ,  i won’t be your wife .
i would draw as soon as another man, if i see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law on my side.
one of them shows that the death of cassio was to be undertaken by roderigo .
he’s in  they say he cried out against sherry .
that’s not good ,  and no good can come of it either .
are you hiding in some bush ?
he would be a brave monster indeed ,  if they were set in his tail .
the words “villain” and his name are many miles apart.
but this place is too cold for hell .
the clock hasn’t struck yet .
as the time, the place, and the condition of this country stands, i could heartily wish this had not happen, but since it is what it is, fix it for your own good.
look, look again!
you say he’s friendly with caesar ,  healthy ,  and free .
what a poor instrument ,  that can do such a noble deed !
you see an donkey - head of your own ,  do you ?
i didn’t deny you .
o for shame !
good evening, casca.
and has anyone ever won her ,  as i’ve done ?
remember that hamlet is young and has a lot more freedom to fool around than you do .
i think there must be something invigorating about death ,  since she dies with such enthusiasm .
and ,  being a man of your breeding ,  you’re going to be married under some shrubs like a beggar ?
death ,  that has sucked the honey of your breath ,  has had no power yet on your beauty .
not for your entire fairy kingdom .
and i’ll turn you into a spirit like us ,  so you won’t die as humans do . —come here ,  peaseblossom ,  cobweb ,  moth ,  and mustardseed !
if he doesn’t come ,  then the play is incomplete; it doesn’t go on ,  does it ?
in god’s name ,  who are you ?
how’s that ?
welcome .
i will rather seek to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so indiscreet an officer.
and yet i fear you; because you are deadly when your eyes roll so.
didn’t you hear a noise ?
cleopatra— how could i have ever thought that you would be faithful and true ,  even though your vows of love shook the heavens themselves—you ,  who were unfaithful to fulvia ?
how could it be wisdom !
what will you do?
what ,  will these hands never be clean ?
what an idiot that monster is !
very pleased to meet you ,  my lord .
thanks ,  guildenstern and worthy rosencrantz .
don’t, for one denial, lose the action that you swore to do.
that would hang us, every mother's son.
today i’m going to get what i said i wished would happen to me if i was ever false to king edward’s children or his wife’s allies .
you’ll grant me ,  you hedgehog ?
murder ,  indeed ,  should not be a church activity ,  because then revenge should have no bounds .
decius ,  go tell them that caesar won’t come .
speak .
this terrible storm has smashed the turks so badly that their plans are ruined .
no, then, i’ll send those to you who can speak.
i still have room for six more wounds .
but who are you ?
my lord of norfolk— here ,  most gracious king .
dromio ,  tell the servants to prepare for lunch .
no ,  it is casca ,  one who agrees with our attempts .
he's having a fit now and doesn’t talk sense.
i begin to be weary of the sun ,  and i wish the order the world were now destroyed .
and she's fair who i love.
beggar that i am ,  i am even poor in thanks ,  but i thank you ,  and sure ,  dear friends ,  my thanks are a halfpenny too expensive .
it’s better to be the person who gets murdered than to be the killer and be tormented with anxiety .
i swear ,  anyone smart who laughs at these courts jesters is nothing but a jester’s apprentice .
he should go up and offer his petition to caesar now .
please ,  dear ,  calm down .
i hope for my brother’s sake that he just wrote it to test my honor .
yes ?
the queen wants you to chat with laertes—politely—before you begin your match .
children are now very popular, and are on the common stages, as they call them, so much that many actors are afraid they cannot compete and barely dare to come there.
i must and will have katherine for my wife .
two or three men ,  my lord ,  who brought the message that macduff has fled to england .
please give in ,  sweet hermia . —and lysander ,  stop acting like she’s yours .
what ,  ariel !
and so it is that i ask see your assistance .
let us rather stop the mortal sword quickly, and, like good men, climb over our down-fallen country.
i’m almost ready to break down hearing this much .
when caesar lived, he wouldn’t dare insult me like this.
i say that i love you more than he does .
look whether he has crowned dead cassius or not !
good sir ,  be a man; do you think every bearded fellow that wears a harness may be driven by you ?
mind your own business ; i have use for it .
if i had as many sons as i have hairs, i would not wish them to a fairer death.
i did so, and i went even further, which is now the point of our second meeting.
all these friends are my witnesses ,  so i swear to you ,  i swear by your beautiful eyes ,  in which i see myself reflected— did you hear that !
will you break my heart ?
we will hear caesar's will.
nine or ten times i had thought to have stabbed him here under the ribs.
indeed?
no ,  sit down .
by god and by saint charity ,  pity ,  and for shame ,  for shame !
if cleopatra heard you ,  you would be well punished for your audacity .
what’s the matter with you ,  madam ?
i am glad about it: i don’t want anything more than to get sailing and be gone tonight .
a backbiting friend ,  one who grabs people ,  who patrols the streets and passageways .
so ,  i die with a kiss .
i’ve said what i have to say .
not i; unless the breath of heartsick groans ,  like a mist wraps me up and hides me from the search of eyes .
if you do, i shall never love you after.
to have no separation between this part he played and the man he played it for ,  he had to become the absolute duke of milan .
i’m tired of you .
she was here even now; she haunts me in every place.
warm, honestly!
you are looked for and called for, asked for and sought for in the great chamber.
it’s true ,  i confess .
don’t you care about me ?
you are merry, my lord.
please—and i’ll pay you plenty for this—help me conceal my identity ,  and find me the right disguise so i can look the way i want .
now what we have done so far is this .
as long as you aren’t ashamed to show it ,  he won’t be ashamed to tell you what it means .
get his position and use him to hurt othello at the same time ?
he’s killed his wife !
fly, my lord, fly!
to show our simple skill ,  that is the true beginning of our end .
these things are beyond anything we’ve seen before ,  and i’m afraid .
if i should say ,  i saw similar islanders , — because ,  truly ,  these are people of the island , — who ,  though ,  they are of monstrous shape ,  yet ,  notice that their manners are more gentle than those of our human generation that you shall find many ,  no ,  almost any .
welcome .
alas, he's crazy!
the sentence i’ve passed down on her is firm and unshakeable .
the devil’s after me !
now ,  my friendly servant ,  thank you .
good morning ,  worthy caesar .
good .
i don’t have any  “ brilliant ”  reason for it ,  but i have a good enough reason .
we grew together like twin cherries—which seemed to be separate but were also together—two lovely cherries on one stem .
we shall ,  my lord .
then i must think you wouldn’t want it.
we just want you to answer to your real name .
no die, but an ace, for him, because he is only one.
would you like some more sauce to go with it ?
is it good news ?
oh bottom ,  you are changed !
you don’t know whether it was his wisdom or his fear .
go ,  you old housewife ,  go .
where is this sight?
how now, my lord!
good - bye .
fare-you-well!
so boring this day is, as the night before some festival is to an impatient child that has new clothes, and can’t wear them.
that handkerchief you speak of i found by luck and gave it to my husband; because, he begged me to steal it often with a solemn earnestness, more than, indeed, belonged to such a trifle.
i’ll fetch him .
to make me blessed or cursed among men !
i swear, my honored lord, it is true, and we thought it was our duty to let you know about it.
control yourself ,  my precious queen ,  and concede that my love is true .
by heaven i order you ,  speak !
ha !
yes?
wake when some vile thing is near .
how are you feeling ,  malvolio ?
macduff is missing ,  and so is your noble son .
may you only give birth to male children ,  because your fearless spirit should create nothing that isn’t masculine .
from soldiers .
humors!
quiet ,  everyone !
in love?
behold, i have a weapon; a better one never sustained itself on a soldier's thigh.
where does he sleep ?
what do you want to see ?
don’t you trust my sword and these wounds ?
you might as well try to stab the air with your sword .
then you shall be his insurance.
to insult and judge are different things, and of opposite natures.
they know by those measurements if there will be famine or plenty .
we will mingle with these people, and play the humble host.
oh yes—to smell  this is signor antonio .
ah ,  i’m an odd kind of guy .
so ,  for fear of the worst ,  please set a deep glass of rhenish wine on the wrong chest; because if the devil were within the chest and that temptation on top of it ,  i know he will choose it .
how did you get this sober ?
you expect me to cry ?
meanwhile ,  i’ll make a list of props that we’ll need for the play .
fit to govern!
but so what ?
here’s some money for you .
bid her devise some means to come to confession this afternoon; and there she shall, at friar lawrence' cell, make her confession and married.
to hell with you !
get it ,  sister .
no more of that .
let him become caesar !
bless you ,  beautiful dame !
what great luck the thick lips have, if he can get away with this!
enough with the bad faces, and begin.
help !
i follow you.
go ,  get away from here ,  because i will not leave .
edmund and i have talked ,  and it makes more sense for him to marry me than goneril .
you, like an exorcist, have brought my dead spirit back to life.
in that case it’s good to be a post .
he and i will be there .
on my honor ,  i swear i love rivers with all my heart .
i think it is the weakness of my eyes that sees this monstrous ghost.
you could’ve done this without your beard and gown .
lies about me in the throat as deep as the lungs?
i never offended you in my life; never loved cassio except with such general lawfulness of heaven as i might love.
read it ,  great caesar .
a norman .
i leave you at once .
how are you ,  lady ?
who’s in the second chamber?
ah sir !
by the mass, it is morning; pleasure and work make the hours seem short.
will you go ahead?
o lady luck!
well ,  if you were never at court ,  you were never exposed to good manners; if you never witnessed good manners ,  your manners must be wicked; wickedness is a sin ,  and committing sins leads to damnation .
a snake could do that as easily as you could .
yes ,  sir ,  we’re part of her entourage .
lady !
you are lesser than macbeth but also greater .
oh ,  don’t ask me why i  “ need ”  them !
i think so too .
there's blood upon your face .
no then ,  let the devil wear black ,  for i’ll have a suit of black fur .
there was no signior montanto in our army .
that's sickening.
call in my maid .
i am not valiant either ,  but every puny man with a whip gets my sword .
then ,  in my tent ,  you can elaborate on your complaints ,  and i’ll listen .
the noise is that way.
damn, a risky business.
just a minute ago i heard you say you didn’t like it when cassio left my wife .
you lie about her ,  and you are a devil .
why then ,  you left me , —oh ,  the gods forbid ! — seriously ,  shall i say ?
i was never cursed; i have no gift at all in being a fighter; i am a right maid for my cowardice; don’t let her strike me .
so please rest .
they shouted three times .
the blows i gave you already will make up for your upsetting me .
it’s all i can do to keep myself from hanging my head down in despair and singing it like poor barbary .
lecherous cleopatra ,  may all the charms of love soften those withered lips !
how do you both plead ?
once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
she could even what ?
ok ,  say no more .
what about that ?
i’ll leave you now to chatter and gossip like an old woman .
how old are you ?
no less ?
no .
dear bassanio ,  my ships have all been wrecked .
why doesn’t then make our eyelids close ?
good night ,  good night !
this fight shall determine that .
this one to your majesty, this one to the queen.
this sight of death is as a bell that warns my old age to a tomb.
sir, i beg you to come home with me to dinner.
now i know him now.
not me, believe me.
sir ,  sir ,  sir ,  but you must certainly be sure that my spirit and my place have power in them to make this bitter to you .
well ,  petruchio ,  all this is very encouraging .
search high and low ,  in every acre of the fields ,  and bring him here for me to see him .
i'll not argue with her ,  should her body and beauty change my mind again .
let him do his worse.
today our hopes are at an end .
didn’t i ?
he’s not a  “ master ,  ”  sir ,  he’s just a poor man’s son .
some go to decius' house ,  and some to casca's ,  some to ligarius' .
well, well; but, as for me, as i have made up my mind to run away, so i’ll not rest until i have run some ground.
bring in my lord .
get to it ,  be lustful ,  sleep around—i need soldiers for my army .
you are a good chorus ,  my lord .
o iago !
if he’s angry ,  there must be something seriously wrong .
didn’t he come home last night ?
not yet.
believe me ,  no; i thank my fortune for it ,  my cargos are not all loaded on one ship ,  or going to one place ,  and my whole estate is not based on the fortune of this present year; so ,  my shipments don’t make me sad .
o wretched fool, that lives to make your honesty a vice!
at your good heart's oppression .
god be with you .
i have to follow him and give him the letter .
here on his manly breast.
consider .
yes ,  yes .
well ,  well ,  well .
i’d never do such a bad thing ,  not for the whole world !
young girls call it  “ love - in - idleness .  ”  bring me that flower .
heaven truly knows that you are as false as hell.
who wants to speak with me ?
isn’t he here ?
are you going to join them ?
won’t the ladies be afraid of the lion?
i’m learning every hour how to be subservient .
second ,  he must make a will here in this court that leaves all his property to his son - in - law lorenzo and his daughter when he dies .
three parts of him are ours already, and, at our next meeting, the whole man will be ours.
and i’ll go there straight to visit him .
now i am in debt to my enemy.
people who want to start a big fire quickly start with little twigs .
i married them; and their secret wedding day was tybalt's doomsday, whose untimely death banished the new-made bridegroom from this city, for whom juliet pined, and not for tybalt.
did you hear ,  my honest friend ?
come on .
my lord bassanio ,  let him have the ring: let what he deserves ,  and with my friendship ,  be measured against your wife's commandment .
i’d rather be a dog and howl at the moon than be that kind of roman .
o, i am slain!
have i, my lord?
why, get going.
i can’t remember there being another like it.
damn!
what is it?
still i insisted; still you didn’t answer, but, with an angry wave of your hand, you gave me a sign to leave you.
and why does lysander deny your love ,  so rich within his soul ,  and give me ,  indeed ,  affection ,  except by your putting them up to it ,  by your consent ?
i am never happy when i hear sweet music.
oh ,  if it turns out to be true that he survived ,  then that storm was kind ,  and the ocean was full of love !
everything may still be all right .
it was windy on shore too .
please don’t take what i said more seriously than it deserves to be taken .
but when i say so ,  i swear she turns white as a sheet .
what does my powerful master wish for ?
what should i say to you ?
and yet i feel it’s very hot and humid ,  which is bad for my complexion .
i wish you well .
go !
but please don’t let any of your people wake me up .
it’s a play about ten words long ,  which is the shortest play i’ve ever heard of .
i promise i will .
but it’s true—i don’t want to get all mushy and go on and on ,  but the good antonio ,  the honest antonio—oh ,  if i only had a title good enough to match his ! — come on ,  get to the point .
but i will go out ,  for these bad omens apply to the world in general as much as they do to me .
and hot as ginger .
no ,  and she swears she never will .
i have night's cloak to hide me from their sight; and, if you love me, let them find me here.
if the english had any sense ,  they would run away .
please ,  don’t mention her .
to fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, or anything?
you accuse me most unjustly .
i wasn’t born to die on your sword .
i thank you, master.
i didn’t see him .
give me that boy and i will go with you.
i hope you’re right .
no, very pale.
for your life ,  you wouldn’t have dared .
what are you saying ?
i’d rather have a handful or two of dried peas .
yes ,  cassius .
you may deny me to be your friend; but i'll be your servant, whether you will want me or not.
i'll free you within two days for this .
i will tell you everything, just as it happened.
my name is mary ,  sir .
to my sick soul, such as sin's true nature is, each new thing seems to be the prelude to some great harm.
o ,  it offends me to the soul to hear a hefty fellow with a wig tear an emotion to tatters ,  to very rags ,  to split the ears of the cheap seats ,  who ,  for the most part ,  are capable of nothing but confusing pantomime and noise .
as for me ,  i welcome my good luck with sadness .
and your stories have egged the murder on.
so we are in agreement .
good night ,  good brother .
and, lips, o you the doors of breath, seal a timeless bargain with death, who will take everything, with a righteous kiss!
please now, keep below.
in this recent storm .
i know who you are .
is he talking nonsense ?
let me see .
rust inside my body and let me die .
that’s the excuse many men use to save their gifts.
hello, ho, ho, my lord!
i’ll tell them that we won’t hurt anyone with our swords ,  and that pyramus isn’t really dead .
i’ll write to my sister and tell her my plans .
but this eternal description must not be given to ears of flesh and blood.
o, that a man might know how today's business ends before it comes!
there’s a spirit in here !
that drop of blood that's in control says i’m a bastard ,  cries my father’s wife was unfaithful ,  brands the harlot even here ,  between the chaste unmarked brows of my true mother .
will you please make this half - devil say why he tricked me and damned my soul ?
only really cruel people can be called deformed .
have all his business ventures failed ?
shall we call in the ambassador ,  my liege ?
let’s go in together ,  and still keeping your silence ,  i beg you .
oh ,  oh ,  oh !
as far ,  my lord ,  as will fill up the time between this meeting and supper .
the attempt, and not the deed, confuses us.
even those you usually enjoy ,  the tragedians of the city .
i'll listen, be an actor too perhaps, if i see a place to jump in.
she picks it up quick ,  doesn’t she ?
i said ,  an elder soldier ,  not a better .
if the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to balance another of sensuality ,  the blood and baseness of our natures would lead us to very preposterous conclusions .
can you remember a time before we came to this dwelling?
the women you rape are the ones who’ll have to  “ sense ”  it .
i have more news too .
the folly of this island!
good night ,  brother .
o ,  throw away the worse part of it ,  and live the purer life with the other half .
my hands are tainted if they hit an inferior ,  especially since i myself am the cause of my own distress .
what is the name of the castle that stands over there ?
those that are in a hurry will make a mighty fire and start it with flimsy straws .
tell him i’ve spoken to my husband on his behalf ,  and i think everything will be all right .
nothing ,  good sir ,  except to help sir cobweb scratch my head .
it is one iago ,  ensign to the general .
the only possibility is that you’ve murdered him .
are these our eyes ?
since she belongs to me, i may dispose of her, which shall be either to this gentleman or to her death, according to our law which is fit to these circumstances.
and he deserves it ,  having been excellent before he had a reputation for it .
silence !
don’t be so silly as to think that caesar has such rebel blood that will be changed by the same things that change fools; i mean, sweet words, low, crooked curtsies, and playing up to me like a puppy.
the wind blew down through the chimneys where we were sleeping .
shall i be married, then, tomorrow morning?
i’ll do anything you ask ,  monster ,  anything reasonable . —come on ,  trinculo ,  let’s sing .
come and see the proof .
so what’s the story ,  old boy ?
treat them with honor and dignity .
the air is sweet and appeals to my refined senses .
if he’s been killed ,  say  “ yes .  ”  if not ,  say  “ no .  ”  these short words will determine my joy or my pain .
only an hour ago it was nine ,  and in another hour it will be eleven .
i want this to provoke confrontations ,  so i can give him a piece of my mind .
treat me like you would treat a dog—kick me ,  hit me ,  neglect me ,  try to lose me .
o heaven ,  that you would expose such companions ,  and put a whip in every honest hand to whip the rascals naked throughout the world ,  even from the east to the west !
and cassio killed?
if you do, by mary, i’ll give you this curse for your wedding gift: whether you as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, you shalt not escape slander.
my cordelia ,  even the gods admire how much you’ve sacrificed for me .
was a man ever beaten as much as me ?
where did you die ?
what did he say ?
that really is an illegitimate hope .
i’ll poison you ,  or beat you with a club ,  or stab you with a sword .
a trade ,  sir ,  that i hope i may use with a clear conscience ,  which is indeed ,  sir ,  a mender of bad soles .
o, i am attacked, undone by villains!
my dear ,  let’s go inside and wait for them to arrive .
you must not put another scandal on him ,  that he is open to inconstancy .
what, ho!
look ,  my gentle love is awakened !
i’ve never heard of that .
yes ,  boy ,  i’m ready .
i bet you’re a happy fellow who doesn’t care about anything .
shouldn’t i say  “ has a dog got money ?
i’ll keep my promise just as if you really were rosalind .
i should have known it .
there is one that can rule naples as well as the man who is sleeping, lords that can talk as much and unnecessarily as this gonzalo: i myself could make asses of these lords .
here's loud knocking indeed !
look ,  here come two noble animals ,  a man and a lion .
what kind of man is he ?
where did you hear this ?
what do you have to say for yourself ,  hermia ?
o my beautiful warrior!
oh ,  come on ,  woman .
if she glares ,  i’ll say her brow is as clear as roses newly washed with morning dew .
that’s nothing to worry about; you shall play it with a mask on ,  and you can make your voice as light as you want .
where are these enemies?
tomorrow ,  and tomorrow ,  and tomorrow .
widow!
amen !
now ,  may good digestion follow your appetites ,  and health on both !
you’re helping the storm ,  not us .
sometime she drives over a soldier's neck ,  and then he dreams of cutting foreign throats ,  of infractions  ,  sneak attacks ,  spanish swords ,  of safety five fathoms deep in the sea; and then soon he hears drums in his ear ,  at which he starts and wakes; and ,  being thus frightened ,  swears a prayer or two ,  and sleeps again .
news ,  lads !
follow me .
light a candle in my study, lucius.
what, if i had said i had seen him do you wrong?
your wife would give you little thanks for that ,  if she were here to listen to such an offer .
where should we stable our horses ?
it’s a good thing you’re not a fish .
are you all good and honest men ?
are you okay ,  my love ?
i’ll court his favors.
shall it be tonight at supper?
you’ve judge his worth ,  and our great need of him ,  very well .
how beautiful the moonlight’s shining on this bank !
a beast ,  no more .
and, if you babble about mountains, let them throw millions of acres on us, until our ground, singeing his head against the burning sun, make the highest mountain like a wart!
favorably ,  except that there wasn’t enough time for his grace to hear ,  as i sensed he would have liked to ,  the details about how he is rightfully entitled to certain dukedoms in france ,  and to the throne of france in general ,  through clear lines of descent originating with his great - grandfather ,  edward iii .
you make your knife sharp, not on the sole of your shoe, but on your soul, harsh jew, but no metal can, no, not the hangman's axe, be sharpened to half the sharpness of your sharp hate.
so please, leave me alone now, and let the nurse sit up with you this night; for i am sure you have your hands full in this so sudden business.
i’m sorry i was so wrong about him .
fool ,  do not flatter yourself .
the villain won’t escape .
it is certain ,  then ,  for cyprus .
i have a torchbearer .
oh ,  look ,  sir ,  look ,  sir !
let me see, let me see; isn’t the page turned down where i left reading?
you admit it ,  then ?
o misery !
and cassius too.
that  “ may be ”  must be ,  love ,  on thursday .
do you think i would be feeling as triumphant as i am if i didn’t know that our situation was secure ?
what’s that noise ?
is rome still rome ,  and does it have room enough ,  when there is in it only one man ?
a most courteous exposition .
as for hamlet and his attentions to you ,  just consider it a big flirtation ,  the temporary phase of a hot - blooded youth .
tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way did he run ?
this way you show me friendship.
i should be wise ,  because honesty's a fool ,  and loses what it works for .
faith, i must, or else she'll raise a ruckus in the street.
oh why, nature, did you make lions?
you men of cyprus, bend your knees.
who did it ?
please give me a little credit !
now ,  if that’s true—and it’s obviously true—who’s in a better position than cassio ?
i sink under the heavy weight of love .
if you wish .
you’re right ,  charmian .
so with no money ,  but a little more wisdom ,  i’m going back to venice .
he was dressed like a hunter .
if she had been blessed, she would never have loved the moor.
if you refuse me ,  the laws of venice have no validity .
come ,  my coach !
wrapped up queen” is good.
i will allow you one day to look for help in ephesus .
no?—then i can see that you’re not near.
as for myself ,  i didn’t dare laugh ,  for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the stinking air .
that’s right ,  she did .
not crazy ,  but more tied up than a madman is; i am shut up in prison ,  kept without my food ,  whipped and tormented and— good day ,  good fellow .
what heir of the york family is there alive other than myself ?
it’s doubly wrong to cheat on your wife and then let her see the offense in your eyes .
here comes his body ,  mourned by mark antony ,  who ,  though he had no part in the killing ,  will benefit from his death—receiving a share in the commonwealth ,  as you all will .
was the hope you dressed yourself in drunk?
i’ll go and coach them .
it’s a lengthy problem, i think, to bring them to that event.
and why did you come ?
did a dragon ever keep so beautiful a cave?
unless philosophy can make a juliet ,  uproot a town ,  reverse a prince's sentence ,  it doesn’t help ,  it doesn’t succeed .
freedom, high day!
even the best jewel can be tarnished .
invite the many guests on this list.
ha ,  they pluck out my eyes !
i’m not a paid messenger ,  my lady .
a goodly one, in which there are many cells, wards, and dungeons, denmark being one of the worst.
the deal is closed .
there’s nothing to get upset about .
orsino .
when does another like him come?
please put away your dagger, and pull out your wit.
are you really going to pretend you don’t know me now ?
henry the sixth ,  crowned king of france and england while still in his infancy ,  succeeded him .
your royal father is murdered .
noses ,  ears ,  lips .
is it known who did this more than bloody deed ?
it’s as easy as lying .
he has almost finished dinner .
tell every soldier to break off a branch and hold it in front of him .
i’ll go now to find out the date of the wedding .
have you any else to tell me?
but in my terms of honor i hold back, and will make no reconciliation until, by some elder masters of known honor, i have a voice and precedent of peace to keep my name unbloody.
curse you all ,  you’re all murderers and traitors !
no ,  by our lady ,  i don’t think he can .
don’t go near casca .
whenever i mention him ,  praise him more than any man deserves .
i must take out the embroidery?
but not a member of the royal family ,  like me .
what's the disease he means?
and return to us immediately ,  bringing messala with you .
no ,  i didn’t say that .
listen to me ,  you traitor .
pharmacist!
oh ,  teach me how you look the way you do ,  and which tricks you used to make demetrius fall in love with you .
all right .
look, my gentle love is awakened!
why, i can buy me twenty at any market.
to a convent ,  go .
call in the messengers and we’ll find out .
most worthy gentleman ,  my friend and i have been acquitted today of grievous penalties by your wisdom; instead of three thousand dollars ,  due to the jew ,  we will freely pay for your courteous pains .
cut yourself ?
sweet desdemona !
a prophet from the bible come to judgment!
he must die, and, for my part, i don’t know a personal cause to throw at him, but for the general complaints.
well ,  i wouldn’t want to undo the naughtiness ,  since the boy turned out so well .
who did this to him ?
yes ,  the leader of the team; the one that gets you if you can’t pay a debt; the one who assumes people are always going to bed and says to them ,   “ have arrest .  ”  well ,  sir ,  stop your joking there .
she’ll confirm everything .
madam, good night; i humbly thank your ladyship.
go get yourself a seat.
then it looks like macbeth will become king .
he who chooses me must give and risk all he has .  ”  must give everything—for what ?
hold !
yes ,  my lord .
isn’t this war against me ?
the doors are open; and the grooms, filled to excess, defy their duty with snores.
come on .
and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than another christian .
you don’t understand me.
he has distinguished himself as a great soldier in his own right ,  deserving more than any honor your can bestow on him .
one hundred sixty - eight hours ?
you there ,  rogue ,  what do you have to say about that ?
she can turn and turn ,  and then turn on you again .
but my personal motivation—and that which should move you most to sanction my departure—is that fulvia is dead .
if she comes in ,  she'll surely speak to my wife .
even their clothes are unstained ,  and look fresher than before the storm .
oh ,  spite of spites !
have patience, gentle friends, i must not read it; it isn’t proper that you know how caesar loved you.
peace ,  you’d better stop .
there’s no need to be ,  really ,  for—  you’re my teacher ,  so i must believe you .
gonzalo is a miracle - worker .
they are his dung ,  and he their beetle .
am i like such a fellow?
what is it?
on land you keep the legions and cavalry together ,  don’t you ?
what, with a torch!
who cannot think how monstrous it was for malcolm and for donalbain to kill their gracious father ?
go away ,  now .
out .
please, listen well.
what should we do?
fool !
you’ll be my role model .
i think it’s my bad eyesight that’s making me see this horrible vision .
let it alone ,  you fool; it is only trash .
get out of here quickly !
she’s dead .
my uncle the king is to blame for this .
i think a few members of the court should fetch the young prince from wales and bring him to london to be crowned our king .
did he ask about me ?
oh dainty duck!
and she screamed at me ,  right ?
let this act be the stone that sharpens your sword .
and then ?
well then ,  you have good reason to be sad .
i think he’s got the money .
i had to send it to him .
why, look, how you get angry!
the nephew to old norway, fortinbras.
to be honest ,  i don’t know why i’m so sad .
why ,  what is tybalt ?
we have not yet set the coronation day .
here’s where they’ll end up ,  on the floor .
no ,  i’m begging you now ,  tell me who it is .
i'll make my trip around the world in forty minutes.
how is your highness ?
please stop ,  sir .
i am arrogant ,  vengeful ,  ambitious ,  with more ill will in me than i can fit into my thoughts ,  and more than i have time to carry it out in .
he is what he is .
it’s still waving to me .
yes sir ,  thank god .
i can truly deliver all this .
why would you have me betray the truth of my emotions and make my love wander in some other direction ?
if it were nothing ,  you wouldn’t need to hide it .
oh ,  sin can disguise itself so artfully !
people in high positions are shaken by many blasts of wind ,  and when they fall ,  they shatter into pieces .
that we must do that also .
oh nerissa ,  my poor little body is tired of this great big world .
ah, rosencrantz!
i am one ,  sir ,  that comes to tell you your daughter and the moor are now making a satan .
repent and avoid damnation .
no boasting like a fool, this deed i'll do before i change my mind.
lucentio !
o heavy deed !
your evil spirit ,  brutus .
that awful ,  plodding rhyme sounded like a row of dairy women stomping off to market .
oh god ,  iago ,  what can i do to win my husband back again ?
i'll send my prayers with him .
beware of getting into a quarrel, but, once you are in, fight so that the man you fight with may beware of you.
in truth, i think i should; and undo it when i had done.
there’s no masquerade tonight .
the young rooster.
of all men else i have avoided you.
i am starving in his service; you can count my ribs with your fingers .
in youth when i did love, did love, i thought it was very sweet, to contract, o, the time for, ah, my reason, o, i thought there was nothing meet.
come ,  sirs .
why, it is a loving and a fair reply.
what if a fellow were bringing him a couple of hundred pounds to toss around ?
they bore him barefaced on the bier hey no nonny, nonny, hey nonny and on his grave rained many a tear.
i’ll never be satisfied with romeo until i see him  .
fool ,  i say !
come ,  go with me .
are you good at those kinds of things ?
here's a skull now .
silver .
look at the three little dogs ,  tray ,  blanch ,  and sweetheart—all barking at me .
hey ,  hey !
by mary ,  a perfumed one .
certainly, my conscience will allow me to run from this jew my master.
i’ve heard her say that .
you’ll do no such thing .
i humbly thank you ,  well ,  well ,  well .
we'll bet them who has the first boy for a thousand dollars.
i’m sure lorenzo isn’t on their ship .
oh sirs ,  consider this: those who sent you to do this deed will hate you for doing it .
a flatterer's would not ,  although they do appear as huge as high olympus .
how does my good lord hamlet ?
she went from me ,  who loved her with the dignity and devotion that suits a legitimate marriage ,  to a wretch whose natural gifts were poor compared to mine .
may i speak with antonio ?
well ,  well ,  you have a careful father ,  child .
he’s dreaming .
o ,  forgive me ,  you bleeding piece of earth ,  that i’m meek and gentle with these butchers !
my husband will save me .
o piteous spectacle !
i spoke with some of the sailors who survived the wreck .
what’s up ,  my man ?
i cannot speak about this.
we’re following you not only because it is our duty ,  but also because we want to .
go get it and bring it to me here in the orchard .
you will be an accessory to both crimes .
it’s just that my wit is very gentlemanly ,  margaret ,  and refuses to hurt a woman .
gratiano !
i’ll trust my determination and my hands ,  but none of caesar’s men .
if you can get his wife, you do yourself a pleasure, me a sport.
oh ,  no ,  that was my lady’s voice .
wish i could say the same .
and mine a hundred and forty .
let romeo go quickly away from here ,  or else ,  when he is found ,  that hour is his last .
macbeth does come.
because, even if you only shine your grey light one time, i'll find demetrius, and revenge this spite.
i am now so far stepped in blood that ,  if i don’t wade in it any more ,  it doesn’t matter if i am getting out of it or going over it .
yes ,  sir .
why are you calling me  “ love ”  ?
who wants to buy the flock and the pasture ?
i like your joke, i swear.
shall rome stand under one man's awe?
madam ,  if you can find a man to deliver the poison ,  i’ll mix it myself so that romeo will sleep quietly soon after he drinks it .
please rise ,  queen .
never hamlet.
your slander has broken her heart ,  and now she lies buried with her ancestors in a tomb—ancestors who had never been tainted by scandal until you caused one with your wickedness .
you should know that when i came here i was prepared to accept your offer .
that’s authority !
my fate cries out ,  and makes each and every vein in this body as hardy as the nerve of the lion killed by hercules .
there is no vice so simple that it takes on some mark of virtue on outside .
and you saw how the beggar ran from the mutt ?
why should i now have to make do with only twenty - five ?
seriously ,  though ,  son petruchio ,  i think you have the most thoroughgoing shrew of us all .
no ,  because my manly heart is grieving .
shame on you !
o brother montague, give me your hand.
madam, i swear i use no clever words at all.
where are you, proud demetrius?
as i came down?
if you respect my will, then show a fair presence and put off these frowns, they are not the proper expressions for a feast.
and the doctors say it’s healthy to get up early— i don’t know what the doctors say .
then why did you have to stick it in your pocket in such a hurry ?
and when does he leave ?
you shall not write my praise .
tear him, tear him!
what ?
my neglecting worldly responsibilities like that, dedicating everything to seclusion and the bettering of my mind with that which, only by being so secluded, was worth more than all popular opinion, awoke in my false brother an evil nature; and my trust, like a good parent, made him lie, a lie as great as my trust was, which had no limit indeed, a confidence without boundaries.
i will not live to hear the news from england .
i think you’ve been frowning too much recently .
lysander's love, that would not let him wait,— fair helena,—who makes the night more golden than all the fiery rays and eyes of light.
no ,  that's certain .
you might have rhymed those lines .
if that can be done, then i think we’ve covered everything.
have you heard something of her in your letters ?
what, juliet!
i want to learn how to lie .
you’re in a hurry ,  are you ?
no ,  my lord ,  rather with anger .
young prince edward is still alive—what do you think i’m going to say next ?
o ,  what a beast was i to scold him !
promising favors ?
i'll fight until my flesh is hacked from my bones.
why do you speak so softly ?
but you’re a famous pirate !
come ,  shall we hunt some deer for dinner ?
i have done no harm .
these tears are full of grace.
very well taken ,  i believe ,  very wise .
you did ,  and more ,  miranda .
never apologize—when the actors are all dead ,  no one can be blamed .
the strangeness of your story made me very sleepy .
what are you determined to do then ?
very pale ,  sir .
it’s his fault that he’s all worked up like this .
weak of purpose !
besides ,  our hands are hard and calloused .
come ,  bring me to them .
you move your cunning ahead more and more .
hate it ,  fear it ,  do not come inside .
i’ll take comfort in my books and music ,  reading and practicing my instruments .
what should i swear by ?
and duncan's horses ,  a thing most strange and certain ,  beautiful and swift ,  the darlings of their race ,  turned wild in nature ,  broke their stalls ,  flew out ,  rebelling against obeying their masters ,  as if they would make war with mankind .
sirs, the duke is coming from the temple; and there are two or three lords and ladies more married.
first, forward to the temple: after dinner your choice shall be made.
if he loves caesar, all that he can do is what he can do to himself — think and die for caesar.
we’ll have celebration feasts for each other before we go our separate ways .
get going, and, at the sunken place by the river acheron, meet me in the morning.
soldiers ,  sir .
the, who took my letter to romeo?
neither death nor life will stop me from coming .
peace ,  you mumbling fool !
a kind good - night to all !
the law that threatened you with death becomes your friend and turns it into exile .
truly ,  and i hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow .
wasn’t don john at dinner tonight ?
then i'll be brief.
thieves !
what time tomorrow should i send a messenger to you ?
last night, when that star up there, that's west of the north pole, had moved around to light that part of the sky where now it burns, marcellus and myself, the clock’s bell then tolling one, quiet, stop!
torture will open your lips .
or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
i’m critical by nature .
give him a noose to hang himself .
draw your sword: one stroke shall free you from the taxes which you pay ,  and i the king shall be devoted to you .
i don’t think a team of oxen could get them close enough to fight .
he recognizes me like a blind man recognizes a cuckoo—by its bad voice .
what is it ,  i beg your ladyship ?
is your name shylock ?
i’m killing myself with this provocative speculation  .   .   .
here ,  lord bassanio ,  swear to keep this ring .
i'll be a devil - porter no further .
your sword on a woman ?
i think our country sinks beneath the yoke; it weeps, it bleeds, and each new day, another gash is added to her wounds.
honest lord, what you say is true, because some of you there present are worse than devils.
the devil himself couldn’t say a name i hate more .
he thinks that since his fortune is twenty times better than yours ,  it would be like pitting twenty men against one .
there are rats and thieves and pirates—not to mention storms ,  winds ,  and rocks .
won’t it be understood, when we have marked those sleepy two of his own chamber with blood, and used their very own daggers, that they have done it?
you ,  mistress ,  that have the office next to saint peter ,  and keep the gate of hell !
so she is drowned .
you just fell the height of ten ship masts ,  straight down .
but you can’t blame me for her offenses .
have you told her what we have decided for her ?
you shall be as free as the mountain winds if you only do exactly every detail of my command .
let’s be light - hearted .
i'll fall down flat; maybe he won’t notice me.
ah well ,  my kate .
but this whole thing is strange .
and everything will be alright ,  i promise you ,  wife .
come ,  good sir ,  will you show me to this house ?
who has put in?
what’s wrong with my niece ?
i would be glad to forget about it ,  but it weighs on my memory like sins linger in guilty minds .
my good lord ,  i still need you to like me .
please wait ,  sir .
we have feelings .
i don’t think he’d have any choice ,  my lord .
that’s better than exaggerating our trust .
tell them so ,  publius .
o woeful day !
her eyes are vicious ,  but yours are comforting .
i'll carry no more sticks for him ,  but follow you ,  you amazing man .
let’s go ,  menas .
i charge you ,  in the name of god ,  be careful what you say .
your loyalty ,  as mine to you .
i’m serious ,  i can’t .
am i a married man or a bachelor ?
which any peace - lover can do .
how’s our cousin hamlet ?
gregory ,  on my word ,  we will not be humiliated ,  like carrying coal .
half a share .
yes, by heaven!
don’t spoil the justness and virtue of our endeavor nor weaken our own irrepressible spirits by thinking that we need a binding oath ,  when the blood that every noble roman contains within him would be proven bastard’s blood if he broke the smallest part of any promise he had made .
yeah, is the worst well?
exchange forgiveness with me, noble hamlet.
there are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered .
lord mayor ,  the reason we have sent— look behind you !
your reason?
and has my armor been put in my tent ?
they vanished strangely.
only children are afraid of scary pictures .
i’ll go tell the king about this .
safe, antony; brutus is safe enough.
she is persuaded i will marry her, out of her own love and flattery, not out because of my promise.
i know because i dreamed of money bags last night .
tell her we mean her no disrespect .
murder most foul ,  as even at best it is still murder ,  but this murder is the most foul ,  strange ,  and unnatural .
did a dragon ever keep so beautiful a cave ?
but you’re still complaining of darkness and a bad view ?
so the weak third of the triumvirate is imprisoned until death frees him .
yes ,  i’ll wipe my mind clean of all trivial facts and memories and preserve only your commandment there .
lady ,  come out of the tomb .
are you such believers in the gospel that you would pray for this good man and for his children ,  the same man whose heavy hand has led you to death ,  and made your families beggars ?
the what?
yes ,  certainly .
but tell me .
yes ,  he’ll weep stones ,  as he taught us to do .
answer that question .
what if i didn’t go any farther ,  and chose right here ?
if i may trust what happens while i sleep, my dreams predict some joyful news is coming.
there’s a fool sharing my bed now .
who's there?
come here ,  man .
to ,  to ,  to— to murder me ?
only dig deep for your courage ,  and we'll not fail .
fury, fury!
whose do you think it was ?
silence!
you have the nerve to call me daughter ?
it fits ,  when such a villain is a guest .
sweet friends ,  i’m sorry i’m late; not i ,  but my affairs ,  have made you wait: when you are ready to do anything to get wives ,  i'll watch as long for you then .
the tyrant's people fight on both sides; the noble barons fight bravely in the war; the day almost professes itself to be yours, and little is to do.
no more, please; i am half afraid you will now say he is related to you, you spend such so many words in praising him.
here is something for your pains.
excellent in fencing ,  i mean ,  sir .
and with another for tying the new shoes he made with old laces ?
then don’t make yourself too conspicuous .
thriftless ambition, that will plunder your own life's means!
sir ,  he’s with caesar .
come on ,  tell me in broken music—for your voice is music and your english broken .
the more she
and i hope you realized i wasn’t very happy about it .
well done !
the old priest at saint luke’s church is at your command at all hours .
who calls?
yes ,  let her rot ,  and die ,  and be damned tonight; because she shall not live .
fill the cup ,  lucius ,  until the wine overflows; i can’t drink too much of brutus' friendship .
poor ropes ,  you are deceived ,  both you and i; for romeo is exiled .
make the rope of his hanging our rope for the anchor, because the one we have now does us little good!
help, help!
healing is part and parcel of my religious vows; it is a charitable duty my order performs .
i beg the court to deliver the verdict .
that our clothes were drenched with sea water ,  but they came out looking brand - new .
you shall do it, mark antony.
where's satisfaction ?
i’ll have to do something courageous then ,  because i hate intrigue .
look what i have.
you don’t know a thing !
just tell me what you want me to do ,  and however hard it is ,  you’ll see that i’m eager to do it .
won’t they say later ,  if they should go on to become common players ,  which is likely ,  and their lives are no better ,  that their writers did them wrong to make them exclaim against their own success ?
i’m telling you ,  it’s not lost .
tybalt was my nephew !
i’ll see you hang first ,  young filth !
help !
tell me .
you are three men of sin ,  whom destiny ,  that has the power over this lower world and what is in it , —has caused the never - satisfied sea to spit up you; and on this island where man doesn’t live ,  you among men being most unfit to live .
now ,  where it is beastly forgetfulness ,  or some defeated principle of thinking too much on the event ,  a thought which ,  cut in quarters ,  has but one part wisdom and always three parts coward ,  i don’t know why i am still live to say  “ this thing's to do ,   “  since i have cause ,  and will ,  and strength ,  and means to do it .
at my humble house tonight ,  you can expect to see dazzling stars that walk on the ground and light the sky from below .
isn’t he the one who’s always ,  ”  and so on .
do whatever you like with it .
kind and dear princess !
start walking, and i’ll follow you with a new, fired up heart, to do i don’t know what, but it’s enough that brutus leads me on.
do you say this from heart?
what !
my letters are ready to go .
fight, sir!
my lord ,  good morning .
cheer up, antonio!
if he seems game to our plan ,  encourage him to join us and explain all our reasons .
the nasty devil’s biting my butt .
o deadly sin!
what upsets you, your highness?
quickly, quickly; fear nothing; i'll be at your elbow.
fierce ,  fiery warriors fought in the clouds in the usual formations of war—ranks and squadrons—until the clouds drizzled blood onto the capitol .
you weren’t given any gold ?
here comes ensign pistol and his wife .
we’ll all want our fortune told .
very well.
iago ?
since you’re giving me new assignments ,  let me remind you what you promised me but haven’t come through with yet .
say it for me, sir, to all our friends, for my heart says they are welcome.
well ,  let’s move on to our work with the living .
he speaks freely, madam.
i wish i were something better ,  because right now i’m a big fool .
you shall not put your seal to such a promise to pay for me; i’d rather live in my poverty.
yes ,  indeed .
killing him once is not enough revenge .
is it so, indeed?
wolfish-rabid lamb!
most kind messenger ,  tell great caesar that through his deputy i kiss his conquering hand .
death, you lie there, buried by a dead man.
the gods do this to test my bravery .
listen, sir.
if i should report this now in naples ,  would they believe me ?
if this logic works ,  that’s great .
it would be better if you took attendance ,  man by man ,  according to the list .
boy ,  i beg you to run to the senate house .
are you sick ?
send for the man and ask him.
give me your hand .
but my revenge will come.
calpurnia's cheek is pale, and cicero looks with the same beady and fiery eyes that we have seen on him in the capitol, when some senators disagreed with him in a meeting.
look ,  sir—here it comes !
showing mercy by pardoning killers only causes more murders .
music feeds the melancholy moods of us lovers .
why ,  sir ,  i’m a carpenter .
that he had sex with you .
i am being serious ,  my lord .
think about it .
is there anything else you wish ?
in a time like this ,  it doesn’t make sense to criticize every offense .
go away and let me die .
you’re less happy ,  being feared ,  than they are in fearing you .
i met him in the street—he was there with that man .
what !
o monstrous world !
why do you say that ?
wasn’t that letter from beautiful jessica ?
my lord of orléans ,  and my lord high constable ,  are you talking about horses and armor ?
what, strike his wife!
but you heard him swear up and down that he was .
i hope that ,  after i tell you my news ,  you will think better of me .
i am not long, i guarantee, for this world.
that is the very defect of the matter ,  sir .
call him in .
i’ll go to the hole to see if i can hear my thisbe’s face .
what noise is here?
you’d be wiser and look better if you told all this to the doctor ,  because for me to try to purge him of anger would probably make him more angry .
what !
aside.
this bud of love ,  ripen by summer's breezes ,  may become a beautiful flower when next we meet .
oh ,  that’s pathetic !
that’s where hell is ,  and darkness ,  and fires and stench !
you may really be honest ,  no matter what i think .
why ,  she’s a lamb ,  a dove ,  a child compared to him !
how is it ,  general ?
i’ll hold on to your money and leave you for an hour .
my lord?
will she go now to bed ?
indeed ,  my lord ,  it followed very soon after .
why i should fear, i don’t know, since i don’t know guiltiness, but yet i feel i fear.
you’re whiter than snow on the black wings of a raven .
o gods, you gods!
o heat, dry up my brains!
give me your hand ,  roderigo .
an egyptian gave that handkerchief to my mother; she cast charms and could almost read the thoughts of people .
oh wife ,  look at how our daughter bleeds !
provoke him so that he will; because even out of that ,  i will make these men of cyprus rebel ,  whose character won’t come back to their original calmness unless cassio is replaced .
for hecuba?
well ,  because i saw your niece olivia treat the count’s messenger better than she’s ever treated me .
yes ,  truly ,  for the power of beauty will transform sincerity from what it is to a pimp faster than the force of sincerity can translate beauty into his image .
look ,  here it is .
i heard that julius caesar got fat from all the feasting there .
she told her ,  that ,  while she kept it ,  it would make her sweet and soften my father entirely to her love; but if she lost it or made a gift of it ,  my father's eye should see her as hateful ,  and his spirits should hunt after new loves .
we have to think about that .
i must be gone .
i have been in similar a pickle since i saw you last that, i’m afraid, will never get out of my bones.
keep this libertine occupied with endless debauchery .
metellus cimber ?
i will preach to the world for him; that is, make questions and answer them.
give me your hand first .
if you have slain lysander in his sleep ,  being in blood over your shoes ,  plunge the knife deep into me and kill me too .
i will not control my tongue; i have to speak .
approach the chamber ,  and destroy your sight with a new monster to turn you to stone .
father ,  come; i'll take my leave of the jew in the twinkling of an eye .
what do you say?
speak ,  speak .
what a crazy island this is .
that’s as good as proof that the sweet young man’s in love .
they killed my children too ?
why are you treating my sister like this ?
macbeth does come .
alas, what does this gentleman mean?
oh ,  that’s nonsense !
my excellent good friends !
send me away .
or ill - beseeming beast in seeming both !
twenty crowns .
he did ,  very sincerely .
no more of that, my lord, no more of that.
i have already slept, my lord.
stop right there !
how does your honor?
if you will please show us so much gentry and goodwill as to spend your time with us a while ,  to help us find out what is troubling him ,  your visit shall receive such thanks as only a king can give .
all?
well; ok; very well .
i throw my warlike shield before my body .
you'll not endure him !
it is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will.
come on ,  then .
talk about your serious speech over a gossip's bowl, because we don’t need it here!.
listen ,  because tybalt was just killed ,  people might think that we don’t care about his memory as our relative if we have too grand a party .
listen to the captain's whistle .
did he beg my pardon ?
i'll drink for you.
there’s no scarier wild bird than the living lion ,  and we should remember that .
she has abandoned so many noble matches ,  her father ,  and her country ,  and her friends ,  to be called whore ?
and what would that accomplish ?
now he’s telling the story .
a good reputation is the most valuable thing we have—men and women alike .
his son is older, sir; his son is thirty.
let her not walk in the sun.
another yet!
you would never fear being caught or dying, the mistakes nor the tricks.
what symptoms ,  my lord ?
had the gods taken pity on us ,  i wouldn’t be here calling them merciless .
kent ,  if you want to stay alive ,  stop talking .
laertes ,  i want you to hear what they say .
hold on ,  then .
go away !
where’s your servant
are you truthful ?
if i had seen something like that ,  i would have quickly pulled out my weapon .
yes, a dozen; and as many to profit as would store the world they played for.
it would’ve been us if we had been there.
i think that he has neighborly charity in him ,  because he borrowed a moneybox from the englishman ,  and swore he would pay him again when he was able; i think the frenchman became his guarantor and it was sealed by another .
doesn’t that make you want to cry ?
yes ,  my lord .
there never was so rich a gem set in something worse than gold .
when the poor cried ,  caesar cried too .
let me see her .
isn’t it like the king?
look around you ,  caesar .
go to him ,  madam ,  speak to him .
for three months .
stand back ,  boy .
it’s hard to see clearly in the dark of night ,  but it’s easier to hear well .
malvolio ,  your vanity is damaging your good taste .
it’s new to you.
but she has had prayers read for her and is dressed up like a pure virgin ,  with flowers tossed on her grave and the bell tolling for her .
but don’t be too tame either, but let your own discretion be your teacher.
now he goes ,  with no less confidence ,  but with much more love ,  than young alcides went to redeem the sacrifice of young women made by howling troy to the sea - monster: i stand for sacrifice; the rest aloof are the dardanian wives ,  with tear - stained faces coming out to view the outcome of the event .
where are you?
yes ,  the heads of maids ,  or their virginity .
how can this drama be so many contradictory things ?
according to what i heard ,  they had no travel plans as of last night .
come ,  come ,  how you talk .
i know where i’ll wear this dagger ,  then .
the grey-eyed morning smiles on the frowning night, cutting the eastern clouds into squares with streaks of light; and the flecked darkness reels like a drunkard from the day's path and the sun’s hot rays.
ensign, what is he doing here?
then hurry up and tell me what you want .
beat them down!
come on ,  then; down ,  and swear .
just opposite to what you justly seem, a damned saint, an honorable villain!
these lying down and these lowly courtesies might move ordinary men, and turn previous laws and the first decree into the laws of children.
monster, your fairy, which you say is a harmless fairy, has done little better than played us for fools.
he’s serious .
i’m afraid our plan has been discovered.
what have you got there?
lack of trust in good success has done this deed.
this fight shall determine that.
let the doors be locked.
he deserves only honor ,  complete honor .
boys ,  how are you both doing ?
it is not needed yet .
yes ,  i do ,  sir .
where do i live?
your mother is coming to your bedroom .
i beg you, let cassio be welcomed again.
upon his brow, shame is ashamed to sit; for it’s a throne where honor may be crowned the only king of the universal earth.
you should be able to endure this because the world is broad and wide .
o notable prostitute !
how are you out of breath ,  when you have breath to say to me that you are out of breath ?
unable to be lived on and almost out of reach , — still— still— he couldn’t resist it .
not romeo, prince; he was mercutio's friend; his mistake finishes only what the law should end, the life of tybalt.
you gentle romans , — peace ,  oh !
this is his second fit like this .
i dreamt tonight that i feasted with caesar, and unlucky things directed my imagination.
o, three times sorrow fall ten times treble on that cursed head whose wicked deed deprived you of your most wonderful intelligence!
no, indeed, they are not.
will he bring his army ?
don’t be afraid of that .
you'll not endure him!
it is ,  it is !
he was on his way here with your wife .
come on ,  desdemona ,  i’ve only got an hour of love to spend with you ,  to tell you what you need to do .
why ,  what are you ?
why ,  to keep the eyes on the sides ,  so that you can see anything that you can’t sniff out .
i also hope that we can be better strangers .
there’s money in it for you .
night's candles are burned out, and the joyful day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
so you’re telling me to give it time and wait for summer .
is that possible ?
this is the monkey's own rumor .
don’t tug on my clothes .
the hearts of old gave hands ,  but our new code of behavior is hands ,  not hearts .
come on!
who's there?
go ,  get out of here .
oh ,  cut my bodice - staps so that my pent - up heart can have some room to breathe ,  or i’ll faint from this deadly news !
give my regards to your daughter .
let only the common people hear this testament , — which ,  pardon me ,  i don’t mean to read , — and they would go and kiss dead caesar's wounds ,  and dip their napkins in his sacred blood; yes ,  beg a hair of him for memory ,  and ,  dying ,  mention that hair in their wills ,  leaving it as a rich legacy to their children .
give him your arm .
this shows that the corpse they follow did ,  with a desperate hand ,  commit suicide .
do you see something wrong with that ?
she stood and spoke .
if his cause is wrong ,  our obedience to the king clears us of responsibility for it .
why ,  wouldn’t you ?
his ships are maneuverable .
what is do you need?
think of this, good peers, only as a common occurrence.
who’s calling for me?
then say good - bye to me and tell me those tears were for my benefit .
i should have been a sore one ,  then .
go with me to the tomb .
enjoy your frankness; it suits you .
the gods forbid !
cassio not killed!
dearest olivia— what do you have to say for yourself ,  cesario ? —my lord ,  please— my lord wants to speak .
you find the means ,  and i'll find such a man .
is he in his royal garments ?
listen to me ,  good brother .
your sweet brother wanted to come meet you ,  but his mother wouldn’t let him .
because look how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
confess and love ”  is more like it .
don’t disturb the heavens any more by trying to go against heaven’s will .
that’s true ,  my lord .
say that it’s my fear that keeps you inside and not your own .
while he was alive ,  i lived only to serve him and oppose his enemies .
then run away .
here ,  quite confused by this mutiny .
calm down .
murder !
hopefully when i get married ,  i’ll give my husband half my love and half my sense of duty .
hail!
procreation is a good thing ,  but if your daughter gets pregnant … look out ,  friend .
will you play on this pipe?
there’s no power in venice that can change an established decree .
that these crimes are punished so quickly is proof .
if you will take a homely man's advice ,  don’t be found here ,  here ,  with your little ones .
their illness confounds the most advanced techniques of modern medicine ,  but when he touches them ,  they heal immediately because of the power granted to him by heaven .
everything except something to live on .
i didn’t .
well ,  oswald ?
no ,  most likely .
this blue-eyed hag was brought here, pregnant, and was left here by sailors.
what wicked and lying mirror of mine made me compare my eyes with hermia's?
now i fear this will make it start all over again ,  therefore let's follow him .
we’re off ,  biondello .
these tidings would comfort cassius very well .
she already has a face .
but i’m still fairly high - ranking .
if i die before you, i beg you, shroud me in one of those same sheets.
i have drunk but one cup tonight ,  and that was craftily diluted too ,  and behold ,  what changes it makes here .
i am satisfied in nature, whose motive, in this case, should move me the most to my revenge.
grief seems to be contagious ,  for my eyes ,  seeing the tears in yours ,  began to fill .
it’s hamlet's handwriting .
what do you say ?
believe me ,  sir ,  if i had such venture out there ,  the better part of my thoughts would be with my hope of their safe arrival .
what dangers would you lead me into ,  cassius ,  that you want me to search for something that i don’t have in myself ?
even though birnam wood really did come to dunsinane ,  and i’m fighting a man not of woman born ,  i’ll fight to the end .
what is that bloody knife ?
don’t forget to come to our feast.
and when the mind is engaged ,  the rest of the body ,  dead and dull before ,  wakes up and comes to life with a new nimbleness and sensitivity ,  like a snake shedding its dead skin .
it’s like half your soul’s been ripped out .
but what do you say to my request ?
to the breach ,  to the breach !
you and your fellow spirits did your last assignment well ,  and now i need your help again .
you take me for a sponge, my lord?
if it’s no more than this, then portia is brutus' whore, not his wife.
no ,  only heaven knows .
how was this sealed?
whoa ,  man ,  you dare to support someone who’s been proclaimed a traitor ?
a second daniel, a daniel, jew!
yes ,  i found him when he was asleep—so that’s taken care of too—and the athenian woman was sleeping near him .
i don’t think there is any such woman .
he certainly is .
bathe his filthy head with warm ,  scented water .
be angry whenever you want to ,  it’ll have a purpose; do whatever you want to ,  dishonor shall be a joke .
so, for fear of the worst, please set a deep glass of rhenish wine on the wrong chest; because if the devil were within the chest and that temptation on top of it, i know he will choose it.
she whom i love now has grace for grace and love for love allowed.
you cannot start to ask the king of denmark, and then stop.
then the liars and swearers are fools, because there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them.
we’re talking here in a public place.
brave titinius !
i understand a fury in your words, but not the words.
no!
these things seem small and murky ,  like far - off mountain tops turned into clouds .
i’m tired and feeling heavy ,  but i can’t sleep .
i curse myself for doing that !
no ,  longer than that .
truthfully ,  my name is cinna .
claudio ,  i’m telling you right to your face that you have wronged me and my innocent child .
believe me ,  my friend ,  since i have the power to stop the prosecutors .
go on .
madam ,  i will .
if i desecrate with my most unworthy hand this holy shrine of your hand, the gentle end is this, my lips, like two blushing pilgrims, ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
well, goodbye!
part them.
that it did ,  sir ,  in the very throat of me; only i paid him back for his lie; and ,  i think ,  being too strong for him ,  though he knocked me off my feet a few times ,  i still made a joke to throw him off .
i am ashamed that women are so foolish as to declare war when they should plead on their knees for peace ,  that they seek authority ,  supremacy ,  and power when they are under an obligation to serve ,  love ,  and obey .
doesn’t she realize how unworthy she is of the gentleman we have found to be her bridegroom ?
no ,  madam .
so hurry up ,  because we have twenty miles to cover today .
but my dear ,  when i said i was worth nothing ,  i was actually bragging—i should’ve said that i was worse than nothing .
and didn’t they put this wreath of victory on my brows, and told me to give it you?
let me argue with you about your situation .
do it .
to find you .
he couldn’t eat without me talking about it .
how long has he been in there ?
come with me .
how many goodly creatures are there here !
we’ll meet at the elephant .
oh dear!
get out of that position ,  because i can disarm you with my magic wand and make your sword drop .
then let’s meet with our senior command and discuss what to do next .
well ,  syracusian ,  tell us–briefly–why you left your hometown and came to ephesus .
nature has made it so that i can see through your chest all the way to your heart.
let’s go there .
can’t you find a reason without my giving you one ?
oh ,  my lord ,  when wisdom and passion are in one body ,  it’s ten to one that the passion will win .
punishment !
he was the first that ever bore arms .
yes ,  and be brief .
we human beings don’t control our own destinies .
where should we eat ?
what are these things ,  my lord antonio ?
what does the silver say, with her virgin color?
i won’t do them wrong; i would rather choose to wrong the dead, to wrong myself, and you, before i’ll wrong such honorable men.
do you see, gentlemen?
be like the fountain that my children and all my descendants flow from ,  has rejected me !
i almost feel you .
they are coming to the play .
don’t you have a letter for me from the friar ?
you may as well try to turn the sun to ice by fanning its face with a peacock feather .
then his mighty heart burst ,  and ,  in his cloak covering up his face ,  even at the base of pompey's statue ,  which was covered in blood ,  great caesar fell .
i was born in pisa ,  famous for its serious citizens ,  like my father before me; my father ,  vincentio ,  a successful ,  world - traveled merchant ,  was one of the
i’m finished .
your eyes are playing tricks on you .
why, you silly gentleman!
may one be forgiven a sin and still hold on to its benefits ?
most noble man ,  will you die ?
i’ll do anything you ask .
i want to forget what i am .
oh spite!
i’ll be back here with you by two o'clock .
he can hold his fingers in a v - shape like this ,  and pyramus and thisbe can whisper to each other through that little crack .
and leave us ,  publius ,  in case the people storming us should harm you .
o bloody period!
but ,  sir ,  such answer as i can make ,  you shall command ,  or rather ,  as you say ,  my mother shall command .
well ,  well ,  well ,  pray god it be ,  sir .
you mustn’t think that we are made of stuff so flat and dull that we can let our power be shaken with danger ,  and think it unimportant .
o peer!
you, roderigo!
now ,  you blasphemer ,  who sent grace overboard with swearing ,  don’t you have an oath on shore ?
young fortinbras ,  after conquering poland ,  gives this warlike volley to the ambassadors of england .
let’s hear what antony can say .
better macbeth than such an one like me to reign over scotland.
what beast was it ,  then ,  that made you tell me about this plan ?
once i’m there ,  i won’t need a guide anymore .
so ,  what hour of comfort have i ever had in your company ?
i think you do; and, because i know you are full of love and honesty and weigh your words carefully before saying them, these stops of yours frighten me even more, because such things in a false, disloyal rogue are tricks of custom, but in a man that's just they're hidden delays, working from the heart, that passion cannot control.
the human being unburdened by the trappings of civilization is no more than a poor ,  naked ,  two - legged animal like you .
i am more an antique roman than a dane .
do you know him ?
no, not too upset.
then our beggars are bodies, and our monarchs and outstretched heroes are the beggars' shadows.
tell us about this wrestling .
i wish you could just stammer this hidden man out of your mouth like wine out of a narrow - necked bottle: either too much at once or none at all .
philomel ,  with melody ,  sing in our sweet lullaby .
that’s very good; i must be patient.
i’m sticking to the contract .
wake up my whole household !
but i still have a little memory left ,  and there’s still some fire in my eyes; my dull ,  deaf ears can still hear a little .
what does this mean, that you, dead corpse, again in full armor, revisit us in the light and shadows of the moon, making night hideous, and making us fools of nature shake our dispositions so horridly with thoughts that go beyond the reaches of our souls?
look you ,  these are the holes to cover .
now curse my manners and my pride if hermia meant to say lysander lied!
damn you!
tell us about the letters that you got from france .
you’d make a good fool .
now all is for nothing .
let me play the lion too.
then she comes to me ,  and with wild looks ,  asks me to devise some means to get her of this second marriage ,  or right there ,  in my cell ,  she would kill herself .
but don’t delay .
do you win ,  roman ?
i had you figured for a piece of furniture .
how long have you been a grave-maker?
his imagination is making him crazy .
i’m listening to you only because i’ve got nothing better to do .
what a hard blow that was !
i wish it might prove the end of his losses .
here comes his body ,  mourned by mark antony ,  who ,  although he had no hand in his death ,  shall receive the benefit of his dying ,  a place in the commonwealth ,  just as you all will .
it doesn’t matter how i am: he hurt me ,  and that’s that .
men should be what they seem; or those that are not ,  i wish wouldn’t seem so !
i thought i was—there is no man can tell what .
o!
but i’m old now ,  and suffering has weakened me .
yes ,  ma'am .
you’ve described a hot friend cooling off.
the hearts of old gave hands, but our new code of behavior is hands, not hearts.
oh ,  i’m dying of hunger .
i leave you at once.
eyes without feeling ,  feeling without sight ,  ears without hands or eyes ,  smelling without them all ,  or a sickly part of one true sense couldn’t act like this without a conscious thought .
wait, countrymen.
o, my fear interprets!
first ,  i must tell you this desdemona is directly in love with him .
are you drunk ?
good madam ,  let me speak .
speak briefly ,  can you like paris' love ?
wicked deeds will rise to be seen even if they are buried very deep in the earth.
there’s a ransom .
which one of you all will now deny to dance ?
will you come to bed, my lord?
carry me ,  good friends ,  to where cleopatra is .
to find you .
not even one success ?
your husband, is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows what to do in these times.
this is a trick to distract me from my request .
take away this body ,  and do what i say .
it’s easy to err when left to our own devices ,  but criticism helps us to see our faults and correct them .
do you confess the promise to pay?
of launcelot, if it pleases you, sir.
indeed ,  i remember it well .
she is too fair ,  too wise; wisely too fair ,  to earn her own happiness by making me despair .
i’m not asking you to call her .
you do ,  and you think it’s a lot to walk the waves of the ocean ,  to run on the sharp wind of the north ,  to do my business under the earth when it is baked with frost .
here’s what you’ll do .
since you have given me my dukedom again ,  i will repay you with just as good a thing; at least bring out a wonder ,  to make you as happy as i am to have my dukedom .
oh ,  my brave emperor ,  this is what i call a fight !
is she a capulet ?
what music is this?
no one that i love more than myself .
i’m sure some christian will resort to trickery to get you .
but don’t go with it!
i will not.
it surprises me as much as my joy to see you here before me .
goodbye .
frightening looks are also at my service ,  as are fake smiles .
if everyone here knows us but we don’t know anybody ,  it’s time ,  i think ,  for us to pack our bags and take off .
such as she says my lord said i was .
what are you doing ?
he’s just as terrified of sir andrew .
welcome ,  iago; we must go to the guard .
excellent good.
on top of her ?
what income ,  what profit does it bring in ?
god ,  that song’s even better than the other one .
i did give the finger, sir.
o my sweet ,  i chit - chat unfashionably ,  and i talk foolishly about my own comforts .
let her have your votes.
so maybe slander, whose whisper covers the entire world as surely as the cannon hits its target and delivers his poisoned shot, may miss our name, and not amount to anything at all.
think about it .
the hell with him, jack!
i can do no more.
and i'll still stay, to have you still forget, forgetting any other home but this one.
what’s going on ,  juliet ?
the crow sings as sweetly as the lark when either is waited on, and i think the nightingale, if she sang by day, when every goose is cackling, would be considered no better a musician than the wren.
i’ll be able to see better from that pine tree over there .
you don’t have to go yet .
she provides an excellent moral .
this was a bad beginning of the night .
i don’t know what to say .
i drew my sword to part them .
she was only dead ,  my lord ,  as long as her slander lived .
what is my name ?
i must go in .
sir, i wish she would give you as much of her lips as she often gives me of her tongu., you'd have enough.
my good friends ,  i’ll see you tomorrow .
good night.
and when a wise man gives you better advice than i just did ,  give me my advice back again .
i’m locked up in a prison and deprived of food .
nothing, my lord.
her mood must be pitied.
who's there ?
and he fixed his eyes on you ?
it is not words that shake me like this .
what do you think you’re doing ?
don’t you have any mouth on land?
they’re natural enough .  ”  i think these things are omens of things to come in our country .
on thursday, tell her, she shall be married to this noble earl.
caesar wrote for him to come to rome .
your tongue should be blistered for such a wish !
so litio’s out of the picture .
make the rope of his hanging our rope for the anchor ,  because the one we have now does us little good !
i swear the only ransom will be these bones of mine .
it is not the custom for the maids in france to kiss before they are married ,  is that what she says ?
hey ,  are you there ?
alas, who knows?
that’s what i’m doing .
bassanio gave his ring to the judge who asked for it ,  and deserved it too .
this supernatural meeting can’t be bad ,  only it can’t be good either .
our noblemen are battling bravely .
boy ,  your words can’t excuse the harm you’ve done to me .
where do you live ,  pretty young man ?
let’s carve him up like a dish fit for the gods ,  not chop him up like a carcass fit for dogs .
even the fiercest wild animal has some touch of pity .
not poppy ,  nor mandragora ,  nor all the drowsy drugs of the world ,  shall ever bring you that sweet sleep which you had yesterday .
yuck!
who knocks so hard ?
indulge us further and supplement our performance with your own imaginings .
his father ,  if i do say so myself ,  is an honest but very poor man ,  and ,  thank god ,  likely to live a long time .
but so what ?
who, i, my lord?
you have dancing shoes, with nimble soles; i have a soul of lead that pins me to the ground.
if you happen to see horatio and marcellus ,  who are supposed to stand guard with me tonight ,  tell them to hurry .
why do you complain about your birth ,  the heaven ,  and earth ?
stay down ,  heart .
my lord ,  he refuses to come .
i did too ,  and he also swore he would marry her tonight .
hello, my headstrong daughter!
are you in your right mind ?
o me ,  o me !
what unusual reason brings her here ?
he drinks like this every night before he goes to sleep .
why, you deboshed fish you, was there ever a coward that has drunk so much sack as i have today?
didn’t you call him a liar ?
time and happiness can run through the roughest day.
neither heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight.
really ,  i’ll help .
how old is he ?
he’s a clown, but, as i say, proud to own dirt.
ho !
since he has the jewel i loved ,  which you swore you’d keep forever ,  i’ll be as generous as you were to him .
yes ,  unfortunately .
really ,  are you afraid of that ?
i have made you crazy: and even with similar courage, men hang and drown themselves.
now ,  i swear by saint peter’s church and peter too ,  he will not make me a joyful bride there .
kent can speak rudely when lear goes mad .
time’s not the one in debt .
by heaven ,  i'll know you’re thinking .
you must stop this .
you haven’t lost it unless you think you have .
goodbye; and ,  if my fortune is not crossed ,  i have lost a father ,  and you a daughter .
please ,  your grace ,  tell me what crime i have committed .
horatio ,  you’re the best man i’ve ever known .
i think he told me paris was going to marry juliet .
tybalt is dead, and romeo banished.” that “banished,” that one word “banished,” has killed ten thousand tybalts.
don’t your discreet heart think it.
who are they following ?
if you are trinculo ,  come out .
i mean ,  what do the words say ?
why did i come here if not for that ?
may you die of the worst disease !
my lord, there wasn’t any such stuff in my thoughts.
by mary ,  sir ,  because silver has a sweet sound .
forty thousand brothers ,  if you added all their love together ,  couldn’t match mine .
hang on!
he ran this way, and leaped over this orchard wall.
the human mortals want their winter here; blessed hymns and carols are sung every night— the moon that controls the flow of the floods ,  pale in her anger ,  washes all the air ,  but there are still many bad diseases .
i certainly do have him ,  but i wouldn’t advise you to touch him .
why ,  one that swears and lies .
that light is not daylight ,  i just know it .
i can’t recall where i slept last night .
as long as an average person might count to a hundred .
i’d like to munch on some good dry oats .
the charm’s going to bring things to a head .
and rosencrantz !
madam !
you have often started to tell me who i am, but you stopped, and left me to a useless questioning, concluding “wait, not yet.” now it’s time, the very minute asks you to listen carefully; obey and listen.
come here ,  you wretch !
sir, here laertes is newly come to court, believe me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent traits, of very soft manners and looking great.
tell me where you learned these strange things ,  and why you stop us at this desolate place with this prophetic greeting ?
antonio ,  oh my dear antonio !
we shall obey, if she were ten times our mother.
nurse ,  come back again; i have remembered ,  you can hear our conversation .
robin starveling ,  the tailor .
on me ,  though i am limping and deformed ?
give me that letter ,  sir .
she’s a fine woman ,  all right .
i know the people of venice well .
out of my sight !
were it good?
what is the tyrant doing ?
you should know this: much luck is on my side ,  and my enemies have happened to wreck their ship on this island .
put your dagger away.
oh ,  my dear cassio !
i take this offer then: pay the promise to pay three times ,  and let the christian go .
poor imitation queen ,  why do you align yourself with this humpbacked spider when he’s got you trapped in his deadly web ?
gentlemen ,  i don’t know what you intend to do ,  who else you intend to kill ,  who else you consider corrupt .
i eat the air ,  like chameleons do .
kind souls ,  what ,  do you weep when you only see our caesar's clothes wounded ?
we have been praying for our husbands' welfare, which are moving along quickly, we hope, the better for our words.
so the pale ,  angry moon ,  who controls the tides ,  fills the air with diseases .
well ,  good night .
i shall have glory by this losing day ,  more than octavius and mark antony shall get by this evil conquest .
don’t say anything else .
it’s weird .
sir, you go inside, and, madam, go with him; and go, sir paris.
up and down, up and down; i will lead them up and down.
the english are in the field ,  french lords .
meet me and gratiano at gratiano's house in about an hour .
never contradict him .
my dear lord ,  if it was you who conquered her and took her virginity— i know what you’re about to say .
feed him apricots and blackberries ,  with purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries .
let’s be angry only long enough to do the deed ,  and then let’s act like we’re disgusted by what we had to do .
come on ,  let’s all go inside .
my daughter!
it would follow from this that the cat should stay home .
the raven himself is hoarse with croaking about the fatal entrance of duncan under my castle walls .
i will .
neither would i .
i’m going to go drown myself .
so often it might happen in particular men that ,  for some vicious disfigurement of nature in them ,  like a birthmark— something they are not guilty of because a man cannot choose how he is born— by the overdevelopment of some temperament ,  that often defies the intelligent use of reason ,  or by some habit ,  that too much exceeds the limits of acceptable behavior ,  that these men ,  carrying ,  i say ,  the stamp of one defect ,  being the result of nature ,  or a star of fortune ,  whatever other virtues they have ,  even if they are as pure as grace ,  as infinite as men may have ,  shall in the general opinion be labeled corrupt from that one particular fault .
the people between philippi and this field are only our friends because we force them to, because they are unwilling to give us support.
here he comes .
there’s certainly not a boy left alive ,  and it was done by the cowardly rascals who were running from the battle .
the money you owe me for the necklace .
you know ,  he got me in trouble with the lady of the house once when i arranged a bear - baiting here .
i’m not sure i can wait that long .
i could find it in my heart to beat him— come on ,  kiss my feet .
by the world ,  i think my wife is honest ,  and think she is not; i think that you are just ,  and think you are not .
they are loves i bear to you .
he won’t have a chance .
so do all thoughts .
he cut my head and gave sir toby a bloody head ,  too .
i overheard him and his plans .
it is one iago, ensign to the general.
come ,  let me clutch you .
or maybe there’s a chance he didn’t drown . —what do you think ,  sailors ?
right now ?
guard the door .
why are you knocking so hard ?
almost nine o’clock ,  lady .
there’s still a spot here .
mistress ,  you know about that .
no more yet about this; because it is a story of day by day ,  not a story for a breakfast or befitting this first meeting .
the pig or the mighty or the huge or the magnanimous—they all mean the same thing ,  with some variation .
it is very necessary that we forget to pay ourselves what we owe to ourselves .
tell him i am ready to lay my crown at his feet and kneel before him .
know him!
but not so nice when women misbehave .
why ,  the he that will marry this woman .
i defy brain - death !
who commands them ,  sir ?
sir ,  there is special commission come from venice to put cassio in othello's place .
what's the news with you?
to hell with you !
we'll wait until you’re free.
commend me to thy lady; and bid her to hurry the whole house to bed ,  which heavy sorrow makes them more likely to do .
fighting life, fighting death, i come without delay.
usually that means a person is foolish .
i would believe it against a fortuneteller.
indeed ,  he’s not right for this .
why have you come here in such a mob ?
if i die before you do make sure i’m wrapped in those sheets in my coffin .
he, sir.
in doing the service and the loyalty i owe you ,  i am well paid .
you are welcome ,  gentlemen !
get your costumes together; good strings to your beards ,  new ribbons to your shoes; meet presently at the palace; every man look over his part; for the short and the long of it is ,  they want to see our play .
i don’t think so .
is that the way it is, countrymen?
i have to go and live ,  or stay and die .
make my blood thick ,  stop up the ways remorse can get into and leave my body ,  that no feelings of guilt keep me from what i intend to do ,  or put guilt between the consequences and the deed !
here is the man ,  this moor; who now ,  it seems ,  has been brought here by your special mandate for the state affairs .
thank you very much .
now that you are down there ,  you look like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb .
go prick your face and hide your fear in a red face ,  you lily - livered boy .
lead us away from this place: and let's search further for my poor son .
yes ,  but i know— what do you know ?
i did, my lord.
you nymphs, called water nymphs, of the winding brooks, with your oat-edged crowns and always harmless looks, leave your fresh waters, and answer your summons to this green land: juno commands you.
come ,  sir ,  i will fight you .
by mary ,  to… come ,  captain ,  will you go ?
antonio and old shylock ,  both come forward .
your words have moved me ,  and maybe it’ll do some good .
was that mine ?
come ,  my lord; and ,  as we fly ,  tell me how it happened this night that i was found here sleeping on the ground with these mortals .
no, let me know; and knowing what i am, i know what she shall be.
the thane of fife had a wife .
do you think it is easier to play me than a pipe?
get going now .
no ,  by my life and soul !
yes ,  madam ,  from the reach of my hands .
you ,  sir ,  where’s my daughter ?
take away your hand !
o courteous tybalt!
and they respond to you with their hearts as well .
there, give it to your whore.
and i beg you ,  please come here again tomorrow .
revenge,—go,—find,—burn,—fire,—kill,—slay,— don’t let a traitor live!
where are you going?
aren’t you moved, when the entire earth is shaking uncontrollably?
no rescue for me ?
answer that .
if not ,  i’ll leave you alone and that’ll be the end of my business .
come ,  why be so hesitant ?
do you forget from what a torment i freed you ?
this was kindness?
and i’ll use my methods so well ,  that they shall go far with little effort .
will you do this?
my lord, i think i saw him last night.
why are you telling me about robbing?
it applies to you as much as to me ,  my lord .
look who’s coming: a young man and an old man ,  having a serious talk .
i can do anything !
i never may believe these antique fables, or these fairy toys.
and there’s another storm brewing—i can hear it in the way the wind whistles .
please don’t make fun of me .
would you ever do such a thing for all the world ?
what do you think ,  madam ?
death ,  that has taken her away to make me wail ,  ties up my tongue and will not let me speak .
believe me, sir, if i had such venture out there, the better part of my thoughts would be with my hope of their safe arrival.
my learned lord ,  kindly explain to us the legal and religious grounds for why this french salic law either should or shouldn’t bar me in my claim .
please invite them in .
that’s three hours since nine o'clock ,  but she hasn’t come back .
coward !
and i’ll be eternally grateful to you .
so can i .
you’ve served me faithfully .
but both of these were put off by elizabeth grey ,  a careworn mother of many children who had once been a beauty but was now a stressed - out widow long past her prime .
what does this mean ?
but goodbye .
send the necklace to her ,  or send me with a token that will authorize her to pay me .
we’ll put a leash on this danger that’s now running wild .
the gold i gave dromio is safe and sound at the centaur ,  and the inn host says that dromio has left and is looking for me .
goodbye .
were the same age.
that is the very defect of the matter, sir.
no ,  madam .
relent ?
oh fates !
what trouble i was to you then !
here’s the indictment of the good lord hastings ,  which has been written out in a clear hand ,  like any legal document ,  so it can be read aloud in public outside st .  paul’s cathedral .
ever since i arrived here ,  just now ,  i’ve been hearing strange rumors .
and now ,  let’s turn to our business with the french .
make room, and let him stand before us.
what ,  banishment ?
do so .
thus ,  then ,  here it is; the valiant paris seeks you for his love .
don’t joke about this ,  enobarbus .
so i won’t choose what many men desire ,  because i won’t jump on the bandwagon and include myself with the whole crude population .
i’ve gotten it dirty—ashes to ashes ,  and dust to dust .
what's your gracious pleasure ?
i will tell you everything ,  just as it happened .
so the heavens smile upon this holy act that after-hours will not scold us with sorrow!
what's your pleasure?
good romeo ,  hide yourself .
what fight was here ?
likewise ,  i’m young ,  and my sense of reason has just ripened .
you’ll be afraid to hear it .
let me shake your hand .
don’t harp on that point ,  madam—it’s past .
stop it .
go, hercules!
and what i spoke ,  i spoke to my face .
yes ,  by heaven !
you’re so infatuated with him that you’re hallucinating .
if the prophecy is true ,  i have defiled my soul for banquo's sons; i have murdered the gracious duncan for them ,  put doubts and bitter feelings into my mind only for them ,  and i have given my soul to the common enemy of man ,  just to make them kings ,  the sons of banquo kings !
you’re giving him a present ?
younger girls than she are made happy mothers .
the poet's eye, rolling in a fine frenzy, glances from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven; and as imagination sends out the forms of things unknown, the poet's pen turns them to shapes, and gives a local place and a name to airy nothing.
now i’m scared again .
get going ,  then ,  robin ,  make the night darker; cover the stars in the sky with drooping fog ,  as black as acheron ,  and lead these testy rivals so astray that they will not come within another's way .
my lady ordered me to deliver her letter .
he’ll bring a lot of money to the person who owns him ,  that’s for sure .
yes, damn it, i'll be taking care of it right away.
it persuades you and discourages you .
quiet !
thank you.
judges?
no ,  listen to it ,  antony .
is this the prince’s brother ?
this is the man .
masters, you are all welcome.
don’t be afraid of her company .
when laban and he agreed that all the lambs which were streaked and multicolored should be given to jacob, the ewes, being divided, were bred with the rams at the end of autumn; and just when the rams and the ewes were in the act of procreation, the skilful shepherd peeled certain sticks, and, at the moment of mating, he stuck them up before the fat ewes, who, then conceiving, did in lambing time gave birth to multicolored lambs, and those were jacob's.
i can tell that something wicked is coming by the tingling in my thumbs .
i’ve done everything you accuse me of—and more ,  much more .
for god’s sake ,  would someone bring me a mug of beer !
by risking the second arrow ,  i’d often get both of them back .
do you want to go see him ?
help, help!
here’s the head of that notorious traitor ,  the dangerous and unsuspected hastings .
i don’t know .
and ,  my dear sister ,  as long as the winds are blowing and ships are sailing ,  let me hear from you—write .
no ,  my noble lord ,  it is not for you .
i told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking; so full of smoothness that they beat the air for breathing in their faces; beat the ground for kissing their feet; yet always bending towards their project.
everyone except the sailors dove into the sea ,  leaving behind the ship that i had set on fire .
it was the most ruthless massacre this country has ever been guilty of .
she’s cheating on me ?
iago ,  who started it ?
despise me ,  if i don’t .
i have already .
how are you ,  my dear othello !
out ,  of love ?
sir topas ,  sir topas ,  good sir topas ,  please go find my lady olivia— get out ,  demon !
and did you see the handkerchief?
go get me a crow .
you are everywhere?
go to your tomb !
o, you are wise; that is certain.
you should let others take care of you and submit to people who know better than you do what’s good for you .
what shall we hear of this ?
here is the man, this moor; who now, it seems, has been brought here by your special mandate for the state affairs.
if there are any, speak, because i have offended him.
and bring the ship’s captain to the castle .
men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run in the streets as though it were doomsday .
good ,  i’m satisfied .
look ,  i have a weapon ,  the best sword a soldier could have .
it’s likely they had some notice from the people ,  how i had moved them .
i beg you ,  let cassio be welcomed again .
oh ,  that a lady of one man refused should therefore be abused by another !
we do not doubt it .
it will only create a scab and film over the ulcer, while rotten corruption, working within everything, infects it unseen.
what you have spoken may be so perhaps .
you’re the beautiful one as far as demetrius is concerned .
my man grumio !
but this would be too cold a place to sleep if he hadn’t warmed himself with ale .
give me some whiskey.
oh ,  he’s a dangerously clever boy—bold ,  quick - witted ,  capable .
what have you done ?
to you i am bound for my life and education; my life and education both teach me how to respect you; you are the lord of duty ,  i am therefore your daughter .
he speaks well .
get me ink and paper ,  and hire some horses .
we are all made of dreams ,  and our life stretches from sleep before birth to sleep after death .
are these, i beg you, wind instruments?
let it come down .
these are bad omens ,  but i hope ,  i hope ,  they don’t predict my future .
put your sword away ,  or use it to help me break up this fight .
the bearer of bad news is often blamed for it .
phoebe ,  keep your promise to marry me ,  and to marry this shepherd if you choose to refuse me .
but the really unbelievable thing is—and this is incredible— as most unbelievable things are .
you seem like a good judge .
i would gladly forget it ,  but ,  o ,  it presses into my memory like damned guilty deeds press into sinners' minds .
well ,  there has been a lot of comment on both sides ,  and the nation holds it no sin to provoke them to controversy .
lady, such a man as all the world why he's the very image of a wax statue.
my only love sprung from my only hate !
o ,  then ,  by day where will you find a cavern dark enough to hide your monstrous face ?
not in love either?
i’m afraid we’re intruding too boldly on your sleep time .
you know the meeting place.
go ,  change into a spirit ,  and come here invisibly: go ,  come here with care !
but what if my answer’s no ?
then i’ll really give it to you .
and why does lysander deny your love, so rich within his soul, and give me, indeed, affection, except by your putting them up to it, by your consent?
if hamlet makes the first or second hit ,  or gets back at laertes by making the third hit ,  then let my soldiers give him a military salute .
what is my nation ?
some of this liquor’s still left in the goblet .
what is the matter ?
o brave iago, honest and just, that have such noble sense of your friend's wrong!
the rules of dueling say he has to .
a good and virtuous nature may recoil in an charge by a king.
close by ,  my master .
their shadows are like a deadly canopy ,  under which our army lies ,  ready to die .
now sir, this done, as it is a very compelling and natural position, who is outstanding and first in the degree of this luck as cassio is?
i’ll be right with you.
o son ,  the night before your wedding day death has slept with your bride .
if we’re  hello ,  monsieur le beau .
when the time comes ,  tell the herald to blow the trumpet and i’ll return .
yes ,  you’re absolutely right .
before i started seeing lysander ,  athens seemed like a paradise to me .
what do you think about macduff’s refusing to be at our great bidding?
answer all of us ,  now .
they were planning to pull a mischievous trick on ferdinand and miranda ,  who have sworn not to sleep together till their wedding day .
but he’d been there before me ,  and they told me he’d gone out looking for me .
everybody may do as they please until seven o'clock tonight .
i say he’s a dull thing, that caliban, whom now i keep as a servant.
you know ,  you’re right .
she was your boot - wearing mistress and your warrior lover ,  and now that she’s getting married to theseus ,  you’ve come to celebrate their marriage .
a second daniel ! —a daniel ,  jew !
then let octavia dig up your face with her nails .
we will, my lord.
the wind that scatters young men throughout the world ,  encouraging them to seek their fortunes some place other than home ,  where there’s little to be found in the way of experience .
i’m going to make you look sharp ,  laertes .
well ,  even if he is her father ,  i’m sure she wouldn’t want to have the head of the old man on her shoulders !
but i mean to make my pain worth suffering, to have him look at me there and back again.
but enough about that .
no ,  my good lord ,  it’s only foolishness ,  but it is such a kind of misgiving as would maybe trouble a woman .
mine did too .
but how did you want it made ?
your ghost walks the earth and turns our swords toward our own stomachs .
what ,  out in a storm in the middle of the night ?
listen to many people ,  but talk to few .
if i can get him to drink only one cup, with the one he’s already drunk tonight, he'll be as full of fighting and insults as my young mistress' dog.
don’t talk to me .
allow a good morning from a feeble tongue.
my heart is wonderfully light since this same wayward girl is so reformed .
for my own part ,  i’ll be glad to learn from more capable men .
my lord ,  my life is as important to me as yours is to you ,  and it was never as precious to me as it is now .
i see that you are here ,  but i’d like you to go there and then come back again .
please, let me look on the promise to pay.
to deal with everything smoothly and evenly ,  this sudden sending him away must seem like a planned event .
all right ,  sir ,  i will .
i, beyond all limit of whatever else in the world, do love, prize, honor you.
good luck ,  worthy soldier ,  and good - bye .
what is your name ?
if then that friend demands why brutus rose against caesar, this is my answer,—not that i loved caesar less, but that i loved rome more.
villain ,  you die !
sometimes all i want to do is see plays and go out dancing .
how say you by that ?
the accessory of a welcome is fashion and ceremony.
god be good to you !
doesn’t a jew have eyes ?
then i hope night shadows your day ,  and death takes your life !
ask him in here .
there are two in the same room .
and if he ever has a wife ,  let her be more miserable when he dies than i am now .
in heaven .
how do you mean removing of him?
you wouldn’t have dared ,  out of fear for your life .
once more, i’m leaving.
i think it was to see my mother's wedding.
there you are lucky too .
but i'll be hanged, sir, if he will put up with your insults.
the villainy you teach me i’ll use; and it shall be hard but i’ll make the lesson better.
there was more nonsense, if i could only remember it.
who are you ?
what ,  faithful to being mean and nasty ?
how weary ,  stale ,  flat ,  and unprofitable all the habits of this world seem to me !
pardon me ,  lords and gentlemen who stayed awake .
and when i told you he was involved the whole time i was trying to get desdemona ,  you were like ,   “ oh ,  really ?  ”  and then you frowned and wrinkled up your forehead as if you were imagining something horrible .
i think this tale would win my daughter too.
but their trick failed .
each day new widows howl ,  new orphans cry ,  and new sorrows slap heaven in the face ,  until it sounds like heaven itself feels scotland’s anguish and screams in pain .
is that anything to think about now?
well ,  jailer ,  let’s go on; i pray good bassanio comes to see me pay his debt ,  and then i won’t care .
he brought many captives home to rome whose ransoms brought wealth to the city .
a sail ,  a sail ,  a sail !
i’d rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
speak, because my heart is full.
caesar was a tyrant .
tell me your secrets .
i had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
no !
the devil speaks in him .
i’ll test it out .
my boy ,  it’s true .
it’s time for me to go .
do you hear me, old friend?
if you don’t like him you should quit .
rome, there are no more people of noble bloods in you!
and meet me before the first rooster crows at dawn.
i stretch my joke for that word  “ fat .  ”  if you add that word to the word  “ goose ,  ”  it shows that you are a fat goose .
leave us alone .
come ,  bring me to where they are .
i’m not sick ,  if brutus have any exploit worthy of the name of honor in hand .
give me some help.
in alexandria he condemned rome ,  and that’s not all .
but he’s got to build churches for that to happen ,  my lady ,  or else he’ll have to put up with being forgotten ,  like the hobby - horse in the popular song that goes ,   “ heigh - ho ,  heigh - ho ,  the hobby - horse is forgotten .  ”    what does this mean ,  my lord ?
i know all of this .
your answer is so strange !
tell me ,  spirit ,  how’s the king and his entourage ?
put your dagger away .
a sweet woman !
for this slave, if there be any cunning cruelty that can torment him a lot and stop him a long time, it shall be his.
today ,  great duke ,  she locked me out of my house and feasted there with whores .
here ,  peter quince .
this means we’re having some mischievous fun .
true .
can’t you rest awhile?
this is dear mercy ,  and you don’t see it .
tell me ,  good my friend ,  what torch is over there that wastes giving his light to grubs and eyeless skulls ?
was the crown offered to him three times ?
all women would be angry with you for doing it ,  even though i’m the only one who’s hurt by it .
o, what a noble mind here is conquered!
i won’t be far from you .
come on now ,  wine is good for you ,  if you know how to use it .
they have made themselves agree ,  and that agreement now doesn’t agree with you .
i’ll go onto the platform first ,  and explain our caesar's death .
how is the queen ?
how the man jowls it to the ground ,  as if it were cain's jawbone ,  that did the first murder !
i’m indebted to you .
we'll have dinner there.
greetings to your lordship!
they howl about banishment .
impatient that i was gone, and upset that young octavius with mark antony has made themselves so strong;—because that news came with the news of her death;—with all this, she became crazy, and, without her attendants present, swallowed fire.
take me to antony .
i’ll finish my lecture after dinner .
the gentleman insists on fighting a round with you ,  for the sake of his honor .
a clever speech is wasted on a stupid ear.
yes ,  i truly think he did great good .
i’d be peering over maps to figure out the best ports ,  piers ,  and waterways .
o ,  pardon ,  sir ,  it does ,  and the gray lines over there that adorn the clouds are the messengers of dawn .
gracious brother ,  i will go with them .
what the problem should be ,  more than his father's death that has put him so much from the understanding of himself ,  i cannot dream of .
i drink to you .
cursed be my tribe of israel if i forgive him!
a very gentle beast ,  and of a good conscience .
one of them showed me a ring that he accepted from your daughter as payment for a monkey .
why, then, it is hers, my lord, and being hers, she may, i think, give it to any man.
back so soon ?
o, she's rich in beauty; only poor that, when she dies, her beauty dies with her.
seek him ,  bid him come here .
if you are prospero, give us details of how you were saved; how you have met us here, who were wrecked on this shore three hours ago, where i have lost,— how sharp the point of this memory is!— my dear son ferdinand.
let it end ,  or let me die so i won’t have to watch any more of it .
no, caesar, we will respond to their attack.
i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry .
oh ,  if only we had with us here ten thousand of those men back home in england who aren’t working today .
it is in ourselves that we are like this or like that .
it’s come again .
the dearest friend to me ,  the kindest man ,  the best conditioned and unwearied spirit in manners ,  and one in whom the ancient roman honor appears more than any man alive in italy .
i am sorry that i didn’t treat him with better heed and judgment.
why ,  in good time .
if luck’s with me ,  i’ll lose a father ,  and you’ll lose a daughter .
which of you two ate lunch with me today ?
has fortune turned on me ,  like the whore she is ?
we must speak by the book or lying will undo us .
no ,  first let’s talk to him .
with what addition?
when they feared death ,  they escaped with their lives; and now where they imagine they’re safe ,  they perish .
dress me up in motley .
now, among this flock of drunkards, i am make our cassio do some action that may offend the isle.
please ,  my friend ,  give me all the news ,  both good and bad ,  at the same time .
conscience and grace ,  to the deepest pit !
o, a chair, a chair!
it’s not true because she separates us .
please ,  sir ,  what rude salesman was this that was so full of his own trickery ?
like medicine for a sick man .
who's there ?
step aside, choose whichever of your wisest friends you want, and they shall hear and judge between you and me.
when does another like him come ?
that’s the way it goes .
let the king have the letters i have sent, and come to see me with as much haste as you would fly death.
uncle, this is a montague, our foe; a villain, that has come here in spite, to scorn at our feast this night.
i am no villain .
ah me !
but i reversed the death sentence .
spoken like a brave man who respects his reputation .
god be with you and keep you ,  and may he heal your head .
he ran out that way ,  sir ,  when he couldn’t— follow him ,  now !
be patient until i finish .
andrew aguecheek ”
i'll make you an example.
i have it ready for you; here it is.
don’t tell me that .
what are you thinking ?
this is beyond words and beyond belief !
yes ,  do you hear me ,  balthasar ?
you won’t get any bad cooks from me .
what's happened, that such a hideous trumpet calls to summon the sleepers of the house?
run ,  run ,  my lord .
and should everyone who makes promises and breaks them be hanged ?
fortune is happy today and ,  in this mood ,  will give us anything we want .
how should madmen hear ,  if wise men can’t even see ?
enough of this frivolous talk .
his madness.
you are to blame , —i must be plain with you , — to part so quickly with your wife's first gift ,  a thing stuck on your finger with oaths ,  and so nailed with faith to your flesh with faith .
we are your servants ,  your highness ,  and as always our house and everything in it is at your disposal ,  for after all ,  we keep it in your trust and we’re glad to give you back what’s yours .
what ,  is that horatio with you ?
then what i have to do will need true colours ,  tears perhaps for blood .
take it to heart ,  dorset .
but ,  come ,  for england !
and when i’ve sneaked up on my sons - in - law ,  then i’ll kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill !
it would be better if you actually applied it to your life .
he’s a raven with the feathers of the dove .
where is he ,  in his bed ?
what man has courage to do, i have courage to do.
not even a hair died; not a spot on their clothing, but fresher than they were before, and, as you ordered me, i have dispersed them in groups around the island.
you need a crutch ,  a crutch !
what should i say to you?
goodbye, my lord.
i am the youngest of that name ,  for fault of a worse name .
has there ever been any age since noah and the flood that was not famous because of more than one man?
he wants the child for himself ,  to accompany him on his wanderings through the wild forests .
he will divorce you; or apply to you what restraint and grievance the law will allow him to do ,  with all his might to do it .
no; they were well at peace when i did leave them.
and then you’ll see that despite what you thought ,  i’ll be as powerful as i was before .
he was like a schoolboy who finds a bird’s nest and happily shows it to his friend ,  who then steals it from him .
deceived ,  divorced ,  wronged ,  spited ,  slain !
my lord bassanio, listening to more advice, has sent you this ring here, and asks your company at dinner.
and benedick is not the worst husband i can think of .
i do too ,  my lord .
i’ll leave you ,  lady .
that’s me ,  sir .
that would hang us ,  every mother's son .
with this marriage ,  all the petty jealousies that now seem huge ,  and all the great fears that are dangerous in themselves ,  would disappear .
does it mean being truthful ?
romeo cries aloud, ”stop, friends!
quite dumb?
okay ,  so that’s when he’ll say we stabbed him in his sleep .
can’t he pay back the money ?
read the will !
i beg your grace to pardon me.
and does she have to die for this ?
you’re hitting close to home there .
he's now in florence .
what do you say to that ,  malvolio ?
the king my father !
let’s be sacrificers ,  but not butchers ,  caius .
has it been decided that richard will be  it’s been decided ,  though not yet officially announced .
not for your entire fairy kingdom . —come ,  fairies ,  let’s go .
whip him ,  fellows ,  until he screws up his face like a baby and cries aloud for mercy !
a free rope with a nooses; nothing else ,  for god's sake !
great god of heaven ,  say amen to all this !
now i could, casca, name a man to you that is most like this dreadful night, one that thunders, send lightening, opens graves, and roars, as the lion in the capitol does; a man no mightier in personal action; than you or i, yet he’s grown monstrous, and fearful, just as these strange eruptions are.
their shadows seem like a killing canopy under which our army lies ,  ready to surrender .
driven ?  ”  really ?
but i paid attention to where cupid’s arrow fell .
another thing ,  domitius: antony wants to see you now .
i was told so, but i will send.
there's such divinity that surrounds a king ,  that treason can only peep to what it would do ,  acts little by his will .
will you know them then?
and here comes father .
are you a married man or a bachelor?
i haven’t seen such a promising candidate for your love .
well ,  good luck to them tonight in bed !
did you hear her speak ?
in what, my dear lord?
come on ,  my lord .
it’s captain macmorris ,  right ?
no ,  sir .
now that we’re near enough, throw the branch down, and look like the men you are.
right or not ,  it’s made you the earl of gloucester .
so much for him!
exactly .
here is a friar ,  trembling ,  sighing ,  and weeping .
heaven bless us !
i don’t like it that you knew about this ,  iago .
i don’t know you .
he had the front visor of his helmet up .
leave us alone for a little while.
it’s all still yours .
i’m going to cry .
yes ,  you did .
a peevish schoolboy ,  worthless of such honor ,  joined with a man in a mask and a party man !
i have a faint ,  cold fear that scares my veins and it almost freezes up the heat of life .
no, you must see with your father’s eyes.
i almost faint with fear .
god willing ,  our love and our happiness will only increase as we get older .
how ?
only to be honest and give it to you again .
yes ,  dear little chick ,  come along with me . —shut up ,  man !
save yourself ,  my lord .
talk to the ambassadors who’ve just come back: ask them how majestically he responded to their message ,  how well supplied he was with good advisors ,  how restrained in expressing his displeasure ,  and ,  moreover ,  how terrifyingly firm he was in his resolve .
my evidence that you have wronged me is that you condemned and disgraced lucius pella for taking bribes here from the sardinians ,  and you ignored my letters ,  where i argued that he was innocent; i know the man .
not with any sauce they could provide for them .
and who are you ,  good sir ?
the ocean, exceeding of his borders, doesn’t eat the flatlands with more impatient speed than young laertes, heading a riot, takes over your offices.
i know you’ve that virtue ,  brutus ,  as well as i know your face .
what worries have kept you awake tonight ?
he wished that our undertaking today might thrive.
what man is there so very unreasonable, that, if you had bothered to defend it with any terms of earnestness, lacked the modesty to encourage the thing be held as a ceremony?
yes ,  my lord ,  if you would like .
and women .
i hate my name ,  dear saint ,  because my name is your enemy .
a sail, a sail, a sail!
also ,  he’s left you all his walkways—in his private gardens and newly planted orchards—on this side of the tiber river .
we’re not invading england out of ambition or greed ,  but out of love—dear love ! —and my father’s right to his kingdom .
get going ,  you dwarf; you zero ,  made of scraps of grass; you bead ,  you acorn .
only call me  “ love ,  ”  and i'll be baptized with a new name .
away!
is that how it is ,  really ?
at friar lawrence’s cell she can make confession and be married .
apollo flies, and daphne chases him; the dove pursues the vulture; the mild deer runs faster to catch the tiger — helpless speed, when cowardice chases and courage flies.
macbeth !
a jealous woman ,  a jealous woman !
what people who pay him tribute follow him to rome ,  to decorate his chariot’s wheels with their chains and bonds ?
i suggest you lay low until his rage cools a little .
o, have mercy!
it is not good and it cannot come to good .
leave me quickly.
his old sword ,  rebelling against his arm ,  lies where it falls ,  resisting his commands .
now old desire lies in his deathbed ,  and young affection is longing to be his heir; that beauty for which love groaned and would die ,  with tender juliet matched now isn’t beautiful .
how did he try to persuade you to love him ?
goodbye, cicero.
is it good evening?
merciful powers ,  hold me back from the cursed thoughts that nature gives way to when we sleep !
shake off this soft sleep, death's disguise, and look on death itself!
you did well ,  and you shall sleep again; i’ll not keep you long .
i’m to blame to be waited for like this.— now, cinna;—now, metellus;—what, trebonius!
i’ll call for you soon .
i’d be as right for the job as you are ,  and i’d do it more easily ,  since i’d have good will on my side .
no .
no ,  my hand will rather redden the many seas ,  making the green one red .
the outcome was doubtful; men fought like tired swimmers who cling together and wind up choking.
while you were dazed by grief—which isn’t appropriate for a man like you—cassio showed up here .
believe me, king of shadows, i was really mistaken.
is there more work?
this sounds as if i am praising of myself; so ,  no more about it; listen to other things .
i bet it will .
good fool ,  good jester ,  i’ll make it worth your while if you get me a candle ,  and a pen ,  ink and paper .
me neither .
come ,  warble for me .
didn’t feel like it ?
that’s like hot ice and strange snow .
tranio got you that time .
i’ll pull on these smaller legs .
you’ll have wine enough ,  my lord ,  soon .
really ,  he won it from me once before in a dishonest game of dice .
knock ,  knock !
i’m not competitive like antony .
how fares my juliet ?
welcome .
i spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck .
no, by this heavenly light!
lead the way ,  sir .
and thus she moans, that is to say.— asleep, my love?
what are you ,  that seizes this time of night ,  taking the same fair and warlike form in which the dead king of denmark ,  now buried ,  did sometimes march ?
my husband, then?
yes ,  i am .
if we do meet again ,  we'll smile indeed; if not ,  it’s true this parting was the right thing to do .
look ,  love ,  what jealous streaks of sunlight lace the parting clouds over there in the east .
good countrymen ,  let me leave alone ,  and ,  for my sake ,  stay here with antony .
yes, sir, all this is so.
i wish none of this had happened ,  given the situation here ,  and your rank .
what have i done, that you dare scream at me so loudly and rudely?
tell them this ,  publius .
what place ?
fetch desdemona here.
bardolph ,  be happy . —nym ,  rouse your bragging spirits . —boy ,  be brave .
drunk?
after you ,  sir .
a cry more tuneable was never called to ,  or cheered with a horn ,  in crete ,  in sparta ,  or in thessaly .
stay where you are .
away!
thieves !
you’re a funny man ,  sir .
i do remember a pharmacist, and lives near here, who i noticed was dressed in in tattered weeds, with overwhelming eyebrows, choosing the simple life.
if there are ropes or knives ,  poison or fire ,  or suffocating streams ,  i'll not endure it .
is it lost?
i must protest your comments good heart ,  and in faith i will tell her as much .
is your master coming ?
this is no way to treat a host who has welcomed you into his house .
i know you from before .
by heaven, he echoes me, as if there were some monster in his thoughts too hideous to be shown.
i could not forget you ,  since i never saw you before in my life .
sir ,  a word before you go .
the air here is very sweet for us .
answer me .
if you would have such a man ,  take me .
lord ,  it’s glancing every which way !
benedick’s heart is like a bell ,  with his tongue as the clapper: everything his heart thinks ,  his tongue speaks .
i have responsibilities in this war ,  and as the absolute ruler of my kingdom i will carry out my duties as if i were a man .
my lord ,  you know i love you .
yes ,  my lord ,  just as long as you don’t ask me to forget about it .
drunk ?
you’ve judge his worth, and our great need of him, very well.
where have you been wandering?
i thank my heart—the poor fool—for it keeps away from seriousness .
but to tell you the truth ,  reason and love have very little to do with each other these days .
it wants us to speak to it .
to him, father.
there you are lucky.
what news can you tell me of my lord ?
where is he ?
live ,  brutus !
i was conceived by a woman ,  and i thank her very much for all her effort .
poor desdemona!
lead us away from this place: and let's search further for my poor son.
what does he say about our marriage ?
i played julius caesar .
have you had lunch yet ?
how long has she been like this?
shall kate be my wife ?
take care .
mighty duke ,  please allow me to say something .
it’s strange that you haven’t heard .
there is nothing on earth that is so evil that it does not provide the earth with some special quality .
the wide world is not ignorant of her worth, because the four winds blow in famous men who want to marry her from every coast, and her golden curls hang on her head like a golden fleece, which makes belmont, her home, a rich island in a lake, and many sailors and heroes come to find her.
so i did, fearing that i might make you more impatient when you seemed already fired up, and besides, i was hoping it was just a bad mood, which sometimes hits every man.
i tell you yet again ,  banquo's buried; he cannot come out on his grave .
we don’t want you to think we came here to offend you ,  except that we want to offend you with our good intentions .
hurry ,  you slave !
i humbly thank your ladyship.
it must be .
he’s not sick ,  my lord ,  unless it’s in his mind; but he’s not well ,  unless in his mind; his letter there will show you his state of affairs .
now the only person i love ,  and believe in ,  and want to look at ,  is helena .
are you ?
will you let him, my lord?
yes ,  revered queen .
the gallows - maker ,  for that frame outlives a thousand tenants .
may good fortune come to you ,  good petruchio !
and it might back up other evidence that may seem too flimsy .
no ,  he means you’ll use makeup when you’re old .
if i weren’t a merciful man ,  i’d forget about your missing brother and punish you in his place .
no wonder she’s waiting to get married .
it’s entirely possible .
security gives way to conspiracy.
maybe it’s an english tailor who liked to skimp on the fabric for people’s clothes .
if i live through this ,  i’ll be good to you .
all torment ,  trouble ,  wonder and amazement live here .
he deserves it ,  even if it were covered with jewels like holy
ah ,  good old kent said this would happen—that poor ,  banished man .
oh sweet bully bottom!
god save you ,  sir !
she’s no longer my daughter ,  and i’ll never see her face again .
the poet's eye ,  rolling in a fine frenzy ,  glances from heaven to earth ,  from earth to heaven; and as imagination sends out the forms of things unknown ,  the poet's pen turns them to shapes ,  and gives a local place and a name to airy nothing .
whatever i say ,  or think ,  or do ,  you’re continually contradicting it .
that’s the only witchcraft i ever used .
and in return for this gift ,  he wishes you to drop your claim to the dukedoms .
stand farther away . —come on ,  continue .
my sister would be much more offended to have her trusted messenger abused and assaulted just for carrying out her orders . —put his legs in the stocks .
me too .
is he sane ?
no ,  calm down .
the problem is that they have to compete with a group of children who yell out their lines and receive outrageous applause for it .
get yourself to a
and let’s swear our determination.
does he have a good ship?
i don’t feel guilty about them at all .
very gladly.
know this much .
it looks like a day when the sun is hidden .
they’re really being spoken ,  sir ,  and they’re true .
i know his trumpet.
you can argue as much as you like when there’s nothing else to do .
what’s this ?
by running away ?
i'll follow you ,  and make a heaven of hell ,  to die by the hand that i love so well .
who would do so?
stay ,  lovely helena .
your drops of tribute belong to sorrow ,  which you ,  mistaken ,  have offered up to joy .
you blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
romeo !
for shame, my lord, for shame!
hey, are you there?
what if i am ?
o ,  behold ,  the riches of the ship is come on shore !
give me your present to give to master bassanio .
you, mistress, all this trouble is because of you.
upon the heath .
where is your husband ?
if we actors have offended you ,  think about this ,  -  - and everything will be all right ,  -  - you have only dozed off here while these visions appeared .
let a true evaluation of the military situation wait until we have won the battle .
if you let go of your power to attract me ,  i won’t have any power to follow you .
all right ,  go ahead ,  keep up your little game ,  pretend to be sympathetic ,  but then nudge each other and wink and make faces at me when i turn my back .
doesn’t a jew eat the same food ,  get hurt with the same weapons ,  get sick with the same diseases ,  get healed by the same medicine ,  and warm up in summer and cool off in winter just like a christian ?
what devil are you that torments me like this?
he’s going after a young widow .
it is ,  my lord .
what do you think of me ?
may god thank you for it .
nor i ,  my lord ,  really .
caesar and antony have always achieved more by delegating authority to their officers than by leading their troops in person .
i wish your horses are swift and sure of foot, and so go on for your ride.
do so ,  and tell my sweet to be ready to scold me .
who comes with her?
but who’s coming here ?
ok, we’ll leave you then until dinnertime.
what devil was it that trick you like this with a blindfold ?
in addition to the fact that we have wanted to see you for a long time ,  the reason we need to see you made us send our hasty invitation .
antony will go where his passion is .
i had all i could do to calm his anger!
well, well, jealous oberon!
yes ,  he was hotheaded even in the prime of his life .
am i like such a fellow ?
good - bye .
within these three miles ,  you can see it coming ,  i say ,  a moving grove .
no ,  just to the gates of hell ,  where the devil will meet me ,  with the horns on his head like a cuckold ,  and say ,   “ go up to heaven ,  beatrice .
i’ll be bitter toward him ,  and curt .
who are you talking about ?
so get prepared .
yes ,  heavily .
please ,  peace .
my liege ,  this was my glove .
is there any way i could show such friendship to you ?
why, the honest men.
and i swear by my wickedness (if i had any) that i am a knave .
i’ve been tricked .
he lets the bird hop a little from his hand and then yanks him back by a string .
we’re not playing a merry tune .
farewell !
are you begging ,  brother ?
i don’t care about my sincerity, but i could accuse myself of such things that it were better my mother had not had me.
i'll prove you wrong ,  or else die trying .
by watching their show ,  you’ll find out everything you’re likely to know .
by jesus ,  a very good blade !
look!
angels are still bright even though lucifer ,  the brightest angel ,  fell from heaven .
i won’t mess with him .
bring me the fairest creature born in the north ,  where the sun’s fire hardly thaws the icicles ,  and let’s make a cut for your love to prove whose blood is reddest ,  his or mine .
we will, we will.
so everyone goes off into the world except me ,  who stays in because i’m sunburned .
we all stand up against the spirit of caesar, and, in the spirit of men, there is no blood.
yes, let the count get you out of your bed.
we will take the next advantage thoroughly .
you can play no part but pyramus; for pyramus is a sweet - faced man; a proper man that you shall see on a summer's day; a most lovely gentleman - like man; therefore you must absolutely play pyramus .
your clothes aren’t spattered with my family’s blood ,  and you aren’t affected by my curse .
alas ,  why do you chew your nether lip so ?
there's many a beast ,  then ,  in a crowded city ,  and many a civil monster .
we’ll be there ,  and there we’ll rehearse courageously and wonderfully ,  truly obscenely .
and i’ll tell him about the letter too .
his courage is hidden ,  and when it is revealed ,  it will shrink .
i also think that there would be hands uplifted in my defense, and here, from gracious england, i have the offer of goodly thousands.
no ,  if i had power i would take world peace and throw it down to hell .
okay ,  now i’m dead .
no, it begins again.
so ,  in god’s name ,  let’s march .
there is no jewel like rosalind .
listen to my cause, and be silent, so you can hear.
get more candles; wake up all my relatives .
a surgeon!
o ,  then ,  i see queen mab hath been with you .
have you got a soul or sense ?
no, but ophelia i beg you, listen.
his lips were nice and red ,  a little more lively and passionate than the red that was in his cheeks—one was pure red and the other more pink .
but where’s the money ?
come on ,  sir .
she said if she were interested in someone ,  it would be someone who looked like me .
a duke who is noble in name and character .
your guardian angel is noble ,  courageous ,  significant ,  and unmatched when caesar’s not around .
is that the naked guy ?
what do you think that means ?
how long have you been a grave - maker ?
and i understand perfectly his sneering reference to my wilder days .
damn it, old dead man!
he doesn’t lie like the living .
or at least i can describe the rumors .
this green plot shall be our stage ,  this hawthorn bush our dressing room ,  and we will do it just as we will do it before the duke .
if i grow here in your favor ,  the harvest is yours .
emilia ,  go to the castle and tell othello and desdemona what happened . —will you please go now ?
look ,  it’s my dear lady disdain !
you are welcome ,  sir ,  to cyprus .
help !
what have you done ,  my lord ,  with the dead body ?
i told you ,  sir ,  they were totally drunk ,  so puffed up with courage that they were getting angry at the air for blowing in their faces ,  and beating the ground for touching their feet—yet even when drunk ,  they kept their plan firmly in mind .
he was so sharp when he was in school .
my meaning  and i
o, speak again, bright angel!
he locks himself up alone in his bedroom ,  shuts his windows to keep out the beautiful daylight ,  and makes himself an artificial night .
this my daughter has shown this to me in obedience ,  and furthermore ,  has his gifts ,  which she has described to me by the time ,  by means ,  and place they were received .
then will i give you the serving - creature .
sweet saint ,  for goodness’s sake ,  don’t be so angry .
the man who tells a lie and swears by it is now considered as brave as hercules .
what bond do we need other than that of discreet romans who have said what they’re going to do and won’t back down ?
do you think it’s a good idea to rush ?
a rhyme i learned even now from someone i couldn’t dance with .
but, i beg you, sir, are you really married?
if that’s not the case ,  then this must be the answer: you ,  romeo ,  have not been to bed tonight .
pass on the command to halt !
come ,  let's do so ,  because every minute is to expect more arrival .
i think she moves again .
the whole world wants her .
but i cannot choose but weep ,  to think they would lay him in the cold ground .
she thinks i’ll marry her because she loves me .
now ,  my dearest queen— please ,  stand farther away from me .
that way antony will feel like he’s fighting his own men .
what kind of fighting cock is this ?
what ,  is today a holiday ?
o heavens forbid!
not being the worst daughter deserves some praise ,  i guess .
no one hardly asks who the dead man's knell is for, and good men's lives expire before the flowers in their caps, dying before the flowers show signs of sickness.
make an attempt.
be a rebel for revenge for all these problems, and i’ll support you as far as the man who goes the farthest.
this night i hold an old feast that i’ve always given, to which i have invited many guests, people i love; and if you will be among the guests, you’ll be one more, most welcome, and will make my guests more.
my strange self - delusions just come from inexperience .
i’m here .
god bless you ,  sir !
these are old wives’ tales to make fools laugh in the alehouse.
it’s dangerous to talk about it .
truly ,  my name is cinna .
o my dear gertrude, this worry, compared to a murdering piece, gives me more than enough death in many places.
wherever we go ,  men will smile at us while hiding daggers .
adieu .
fetch me this herb and come right back before a huge sea creature can swim three miles .
not i.
here is your husband ,  like a mildewed ear of corn poisoning his wholesome brother .
but come on ,  let’s see you do your dance .
didn’t i once have four ,  or five ,  women once ,  that took care of me ?
none in the world; i don’t know the man.
a common slave—you’d know him well by sight— held up his left hand, which flamed and burned like twenty torches all together, and yet his hand, not feeling any fire, wasn’t even scorched.
right now we’re shaken up by fears and doubts .
you told me you hated him.
why ,  with my lord ,  madam .
she knew an old song called  “ willow ”  that reminded her of her own story ,  and she died singing it .
hold off your hands .
signor brabantio ,  hey !
now i know him now .
safely hidden .
my lord ,  you don’t need to apologize .
some achieve greatness— ”  what are you saying ?
o murderous slave!
gentlemen, can any of you tell me where i may find the young romeo?
don’t you know me ,  father ?
how are you ,  sir ?
this was a way to thrive, and he was blest; and good luck is blessing, if men don’t steal it.
and don’t only see his vice; it is a proper contradiction to his virtue, the one is as long as the other.
lovely katherine ,  if you will love me well with your french heart ,  i’m happy to hear you confess it in broken english .
i’ll bet anything you like that nothing will happen ,  once again .
as for your intentions to go back to school in wittenberg ,  leaving here is not something that we want ,  and we beg you to give into remaining here in the happiness and pleasure of our eyes ,  our most important courtier ,  cousin ,  and our son .
don’t you come to scold your tardy son ,  that ,  forgetting time and passion ,  lets the important acting of your dread command go by ?
wholeheartedly ,  good young man .
aboard ,  aboard ,  for shame !
what are you doing ?
what about it ?
it’s arranged .
whether you are a spirit of health or a goblin damned, bringing with you airs from heaven or blasts from hell, whether your intentions are wicked or charitable, you come in such a questionable shape that i will speak to you.
antony ”  was divided between her heart and lips .
have you heard about anything unusual happening in the city ?
please come in .
don’t saints and holy pilgrims have lips too?
stop fooling around .
my lady ,  will you have a dance with me ?
my good lord!
remove your armor ,  eros .
from this time forward, i’ll never speak word.
love!
lay her in the earth, and may violets spring from her fair and unpolluted flesh!
i think that our father will leave here tonight .
by mary ,  go before him to field ,  he'll be your follower .
these chests may not be what they seem outside: the world is still tricked by ornament .
i will ,  in other words ,  kill you in three hundred and fifty ways .
but ships are only boards of wood ,  sailors only men; there are land - rats and water rats ,  land - thieves and water - thieves , —i mean pirates , —and then there is the peril of waters ,  winds ,  and rocks .
i am sure the duke will never enforce this default .
old lord, i can’t blame you.
it is very strange .
no ,  cassius ,  no .
oh ,  dear judgment ,  how his words are suited !
damned fact!
rebellious subjects, enemies to peace.
i believe you believe what you say now ,  but what we determine to ,  often we don’t .
our era should be ashamed !
cassius ,  what night this is !
why ,  she was dead before you were even born .
i would it might be hangers till then.
go, bid the huntsmen wake them up by blowing the horns.
reputation ,  reputation ,  reputation !
bring me to him.
not the time i saw it .
was that mine?
damn it ,  old dead man !
how are you, jessica?
it’s a bad time for such an injury .
still ,  i beg you ,  if you think it’s okay ,  or that it may be done ,  get me a chance to speak briefly with desdemona alone .
why do you sound so odd ?
the courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, voice, sword, the hope and flower of denmark, the mirror of fashion and the mold of perfect form, the observed of all observers, quite, quite taken down!
call philostrate.
i’m game .
why ,  sir ,  i spent it on this rope .
you will be exhibited in rome along with me ,  like egyptian puppets .
shake it off .
do not run away .
no, please, sir, don’t be angry with me; yet, if you’re angry, sir, i can mend you.
all hail, macbeth!
only god knows when we’ll meet again .
he has some wonderful home furnishings—that’s what he calls them—that he’ll use to decorate his house when he gets one .
i saw othello’s true face when i saw his mind .
one word more, good lady.
walk a little before me.
what was the second noise for ?
mountains don’t tremble ,  however much the wind may blow !
and as king i’ll love you forever .
o lying woman!
how long has he been possessed like this ?
so ,  tell us ,  did you see that thing again tonight ?
yes ,  sir .
it sets you up for a fall .
i spoke angry ,  foul words to him ,  and with that i will kiss you .
as a child ,  he took such a long time to grow up that ,  according to his rule ,  he should have grown up into a gracious adult .
maybe you should ask ,  what will you do for a husband ?
yes, my lord.
let me try: if there’s a buck who needs a doe tell him rosalind will do .
i have some rights of past history in this kingdom, which now invites me to claim my place.
if i had as many mouths as a seven-headed goddess, such an answer would shut them all.
i will ,  sir .
god help me ,  i love you !
well ,  i hope not .
puppet ”  ?
and when will you see him again ?
you won’t stand and fight .
both your majesties might, by the sovereign power you have of us, put your huge request more into a command than to an entreaty.
this is a pitiful sight !
they’re all dead .
you nymphs ,  called water nymphs ,  of the winding brooks ,  with your oat - edged crowns and always harmless looks ,  leave your fresh waters ,  and answer your summons to this green land: juno commands you .
i thought he was just toying with you and meant to ruin your reputation .
i’m going to rest my head on this little slope .
no less?
either be calm and polite or i’ll drown you out with the music of war .
may god’s blessing go with you and with all who turn bad into good ,  and enemies into friends !
do you want to go in and join the party ?
is his army coming ?
what ,  you don’t say a word ?
the devil must be behind this .
you’re    pull out your tool now .
it is not very strange ,  for my uncle is king of denmark ,  and those that would make faces at him while my father lived ,  paid twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats each for a little picture of him .
what, a play!
it’s not craziness that i have spoken.
if we offend you, it is with our good will.
change into better clothes .
the candle burns in your bedroom, sir.
my dear-loved cousin, and my dearer lord?
this is some monster of the island with four legs ,  who has got ,  as i take it ,  malaria .
no, my lord.
tell me, good brutus, can you see your face?
no ,  antony .
what time?
i have to leave right away .
are you a man ?
that’s no way to pray .
what!
he’s not himself because he feels so ashamed .
nurse ,  commend me to your lady and mistress .
watch her well; i beg you, look after her.
first, noble friend, let me embrace you, whose honor can’t be measured or confined.
do you see that?
if you had known the virtue of the ring ,  or half the worthiness of her who gave the ring ,  or your own honor to hold the ring ,  you wouldn’t have parted then with the ring .
a pox on drowning yourself !
fair lovers, it’s good that we found you here.
i have the best armor in the world .
i won’t entertain such a bad thought .
tennis balls ,  my liege .
that is exactly why we wanted you here ,  your lordship—to avoid the public carping and complaints .
where are you ?
oh ,  good ,  a knife !
a pox on drowning yourself!
where's potpan, that he doesn’t help with cleaning up?
i’d like to know .
caesar, it’s eight o'clock.
good .
you have not been to bed then ?
no ,  and i didn’t hear anything either ,  or suspect anything at all .
never ,  my lord .
no ,  faith ,  my lord .
more torches here !
i won’t beg the gods to punish you ,  or caution you to fear their judgment .
but i'll tighten the strings that make this music ,  until it’s as honest as i am .
she’s dead ,  my queen .
he is ,  my lord .
what’s that noise ?
have your wife attend to her ,  and bring them along as soon as you can .
you greet my noble partner with current grace and great predictions of having nobility and of the hope to be king ,  that he seems carried away as well .
what ,  ho ,  brabantio !
but if these events ,  as i’m sure they do ,  bear fire enough to kindle cowards ,  and to harden the melting spirits of women with valor ,  then ,  countrymen ,  what do we need any other motivation except our own causeto prod us to revenge ?
what’s going on here ?
was there ever such an evil book with such a beautiful cover ?
listen, they roar.
romeo will answer it .
good lads, how do you both?
why are we talking about him like this ?
oh, dear judgment, how his words are suited!
romeo will thank you ,  my girl ,  for both of us .
take revenge for his horrible murder ,  that crime against nature .
are we all here?
i’ve been singing ever since you made your daughters into your mothers by giving them all your power .
i have turned enemy to my own .
and i’m brutus ,  marcus brutus; brutus ,  my country's friend; know me as brutus !
do as i say, i order you.
will you listen to me, roderigo?
your statue spouting blood in many pipes ,  in which so many smiling romans bathed ,  signifies that ,  from you ,  great rome shall suck reviving blood ,  and that great men shall ask for tinctures ,  stains ,  relics ,  and recognition .
no guard?
none ,  my lord ,  but that the world's grown honest .
what did you say ?
let’s go inside .
i mean, sir, for his weapon, but in the imputation laid on him by them, in his skill, he has no equal.
but what’s the joke ?
i took him to be killed with lightning .
about an hour for the ringing and fifteen minutes for the crying .
where is the horse that retraces his boring steps again with the same fire that he walked them in the first place ?
bring me face to face with macbeth ,  that devil of scotland .
who calls so coldly ?
it may be honest ,  but it’s never wise to bring bad news .
no ,  sir .
anyway ,  my conscience says ,   “ stay put .  ”   “ go ,  ”  the devil says .
why are you talking like this ?
farewell ,  old man .
i’ll make him tell me the whole story again—where ,  how often ,  how long ago—and when he plans to sleep with your wife in the future .
yes ,  a little too sweet .
not that i think you didn’t love your father, but because i know love is begun by time, and i see, in the ways of love, that time dampens the spark and fire of it.
the moral of this story is that it’s not enough to speak; you have to speak grammatically .
you don’t know what you’re doing !
i have seen the day that i have made my way through more impediments with this little arm and this good sword than you could stop twenty times.
you’re right ,  lysander’s admirable too .
o gertrude, let’s go!
that with a series of legal writs ,  octavius ,  antony ,  and lepidus have put a hundred senators to death .
the boy was the very support of my age ,  my very prop .
how did my master die ,  strato ?
remember you!
o devil !
dead you are, dead!
the sister of my wife ,  this lady here ,  is married to your son .
god's bread !
i don’t understand that at all .
there's a problem in these sighs.
heaven does truly know it.
how are you, my gracious sir?
better to have an extra servant on hand than be understaffed .
is that the law ?
i’ve almost forgotten what fear feels like .
oh ,  antony ,  you extravagantly generous man ,  how would you have rewarded me for serving you faithfully when you reward my badness with all of this gold !
why has your queen ,  juno ,  called me here to this grassy spot ?
i don’t wish that on you .
we shall not waste time before we make an accounting of your separate loves ,  and make us even with you .
the prince and claudio are supposed to be here by now . —you know your job ,  brother .
who's there?
wake up the moon goddess with a hymn !
he shall get his mind back there ,  or ,  if he doesn’t ,  it's no great problem there .
but is he often like this?
to tell you where he lives is to tell you where i lie .
no, in all confidence, the turks are not going to rhodes.
i wish you had won the fleece that he has lost .
this wind you talk of blows us from our party crashing.
don’t say anything .
what’s more ,  people at the
can’t someone speak?
one.
go relax now .
don’t joke about his predictions .
you mournful princes and grieving gentlemen who have been sharing this burden of grief ,  now it’s time to cheer each other up with love .
margaret ,  run into the sitting room .
yes .
please ,  come to his house with me .
why ?
no ,  really ,  i’m not .
how could i forget ,  my lord !
our handwriting gives away our hearts .
this is no answer, you unfeeling man, to excuse the flowing of your cruelty.
from this time forward ,  do your messages yourself .
that’s what made him crazy .
yes ,  just as great and just as recent .
it’s a lie ,  you thread ,  you thimble ,  you measurement !
i was afraid he was only trifling with you and meant to wreck you, but curse my jealousy!
truly ,  sir ,  all that i live by is with the sharp little tool; i don’t stick my nose into any tradesman's matters ,  or women's matters ,  but with awl .
the ground indeed is orangey.
nothing more than that?
leave you alone !
oh ,  so cruel !
tell me how .
he, when he hears of her, cannot refrain from excessive laughter.
will you two help them get ready ?
amen ,  amen ,  i say to that fair prayer ,  and then my life end when i end loyalty !
well said ,  old mole !
give me your hand ,  first .
do it ,  it’s well said ,  well said .
where are you going ?
no ,  no !
thank you ,  ariel .
let’s carry him to the barracks .
it’s a bet !
what does this mean ?
won’t you be patient?
i’m amazed you’re still talking ,  signior benedick .
go, girl, seek these happy nights to give you happy days.
all you english princes ,  i salute you .
gentlemen, let's look to our business.
how happy can some other “other” be!
let your anger fall on me then ,  even if its sharpness pierces my heart .
well then ,  can’t i act as rosalind for you tomorrow ?
lie down right there .
well, we were born to die.
thisbe !
that will be before sunset .
demand .
she gave up her life with your name still within her .
this must be known ,  which ,  if kept secret ,  might mean more trouble to hide it than hate for utter love .
there is a play tonight before the king.
o my sweet, i chit-chat unfashionably, and i talk foolishly about my own comforts.
you shall not come to them.
i’m finished ,  then .
the french have retreated ,  see ,  and there were great acts of courage .
sir toby would bet a fortune that i’m not smart ,  but he wouldn’t bet two cents that you’re not a fool .
i am very sorry that you are not well.
a sail .
yes, desdemona.
it is not nighttime now .
for mercy’s sake!
i never charge interest .
don’t let me burst in ignorance ,  but tell me why your sacred bones ,  buried in death ,  have escaped from the cemetery ,  why the tomb wherein we saw you quietly laid to rest ,  has opened his frightening and marble jaws to bring you back to life !
when remedies are too late ,  griefs are ended by seeing the worst ,  which hopes lately depended on .
you’d better knock louder .
here ,  my good lord .
what likelihood?
if only i could somehow relate them to me !
i would not .
no.
not a bit ,  madam .
assemble our squadrons on the other side of the hill ,  in sight of caesar’s navy .
i am dead, horatio.
it’s caesar that you mean ,  isn’t it ,  cassius ?
a plague on both your houses!
why ,  that's my delicate ariel !
what ,  are you crazy ?
sit down and rest .
she’s dead.
i’ll pay you for your trouble .
look how they kiss and carry on !
i was reminded of my son ,  even though i despised my son at that time .
goodbye .
gower is a good captain ,  and is well versed and well read in the wars .
take comfort .
good ursula ,  go wake my cousin and ask her to get up .
you’ll work for me .
please ,  just walk with me a little ways ,  and tell me if i’ll see you later tonight .
i’ll recite something for you ,  guy .
why, antony.
i’m telling you ,  get out of here ,  and don’t follow me around like this .
you have a noble wife who is much more beautiful than any other woman in this declining age .
why ,  friends ,  you don’t even know what you’re doing yet .
i am very glad of it; i'll plague him ,  i'll torture him; i am glad of it .
he's gone ,  he's killed ,  he's dead !
now ,  i’ll begin: first ,  we came down a steep hill ,  my master riding behind my mistress— both on one horse ?
indeed ,  sir ,  it is .
spring ,  summer ,  fertile autumn and angry winter have all changed places ,  and now the confused world doesn’t know which is which .
banquo, your soul's flight, if it finds heaven, must find it tonight.
what is making our eyes and ears act so strangely ?
i confess it is my shame to be so crazy in love, but it is not in my virtue to fix it.
quiet ,  quiet !
oh angels ,  protect us !
well, susan is with god; she was too good for me.
she herself is as valuable as any dowry could ever be .
i don’t make fortunes; i only see them .
if partially connected or together in office, you deliver more or less than truth, you are no soldier.
you rascal!
you cannot start to ask the king of denmark ,  and then stop .
away ,  go !
whether your banquet is first or last ,  your egyptian cooking will make it the best .
listen ,  please ,  give me the necklace .
stay within.
he’s not jealous ?
if he fears god ,  he must necessarily keep the peace .
we achieve things with our intelligence ,  not by magic ,  and intelligent planning takes time .
antonio ,  you’re under arrest on the orders of count orsino .
there are more than enough willing women around .
the very same .
well ,  whose is it ?
why, no; the day dawned before we parted.
o cassius ,  i’m sick because of many sorrows .
we'll have a speech right now .
good madam!
what do you think of these quick - witted folks ,  gremio ?
i doubt it’s anything but the obvious reason: his father’s dying and our quick marriage .
also—i’ve kept my sword unsheathed since i saw this—in front of the capitol i met a lion who looked at me and strutted by without bothering to attack me .
i wouldn’t think much of it even if it were heavier .
they came so close with their lips that their breaths hugged each other .
if you are prospero ,  give us details of how you were saved; how you have met us here ,  who were wrecked on this shore three hours ago ,  where i have lost , — how sharp the point of this memory is ! — my dear son ferdinand .
will you let me ?
when did i  do you know where you are ,  sir ?
gladly i would dwell on form, gladly, gladly deny what i have spoken; but farewell polite words!
but my revenge will come .
i have words to speak into your ear will make you speechless ,  but are they much too light for the heart of the matter .
why ,  shall we turn into men ?
you’re a bitter fool .
when did you become so fond of singing ,  boy ?
has caesar gone to the capital yet ?
why are you talking to me like this ?
please ,  let’s not talk about it .
it’s possible ,  ma'am .
where did you get that cowardly look?
it’s time for me to say goodbye to you .
goodbye to you both .
why have you become so rude?
remember you!
it appears ,  by his small light of discretion ,  that he is growing dark ,  but still ,  politely ,  in all reason ,  we must pass the time .
ready to go ,  but never to return .
listen !
caesar wouldn’t take the crown; it’s certain he wasn’t ambitious for that reason.
i learned it in england, where, indeed, they are very powerful drinkers.
i hope all will be well .
but whatever misfortunes occur ,  they can’t ruin the joy i feel with one look at her .
o harry’s wife ,  do not triumph in my sorrow !
we shall ,  my liege .
shylock is my name.
why ,  i said nothing .
such tricks have strong imagination ,  that ,  if it would only catch some joy ,  it understands some bringer of that joy; or in the night ,  imagining some fear ,  how easy is a bush thought to be a bear ?
proceed with your tears .
you who are beautiful beyond words ,  calm down and let me explain myself .
i won’t have anything to do with it .
if a man’s brain were in his feet ,  wouldn’t it be susceptible to frostbite ?
habit has made it a property of easiness in him.
i won’t swear whether this is or is not true.
my love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  beautiful helena !
i have to go to england ,  don’t you know that ?
i never saw a woman except her and sycorax ,  my mother .
how are you ,  balthasar ?
you sleep, and i will hold you in my arms.
good enobarbus ,  you would be doing a very good thing if you advised your captain to speak calmly and quietly .
or else this was a savage spectacle.
o me ,  lieutenant !
who is the man who can explain this to me ?
what about stanley ?
please, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep; i might wake you up in a little while about business to my brother cassius.
for you to threaten to kill me is most unlawful .
what kind of god is ceremony ,  which suffers more than its worshippers do ?
maybe ,  but i wish i’d never laid eyes on him .
nothing ,  neither way .
the fool has planted in his memory an army of good words; and i know many fools that stand in a better place, dressed like him, except that a tricky word defies definition.
i don’t know anything that i said or did wrong this night, unless self-love is sometimes a vice, and to defend ourselves is a sin when we are attacked violently.
what man dot you dig it for?
you go ahead ,  and i will follow you .
oh ,  me !
what ,  even you ,  brutus ?
i’m sending you to england on diplomatic business ,  and hamlet will go with you .
men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run ,  as it were doomsday .
that’s what’s driving her crazy .
meaning ,  to good manners ?
but benedick was once an enemy of love as well ,  and now he’s become a real man .
and like i am for rosalind .
i am not some fiend of hell: you can’t get rid of me with spells .
you won’t ,  then ?
beat—
pharmacist !
i was born as free as caesar .
i pity england ,  but not myself .
didn’t you tell me i should know the man by the athenian garments he had on ?
such love must be treason in my breast.
o sweet mistress ,  speak !
i’m sorry to hear this .
so all hail, macbeth and banquo!
oh ,  i’ll beat him up for that !
is it possible ?
go, go to your love, as was decreed, ascend to her chamber there, and comfort her.
all of you who are looking at her ,  wouldn’t you swear that she’s a virgin ,  judging by these outward shows ?
how is it now, lorenzo!
calling death banishment, you cut my head off with a golden axe, and smile on the stroke that murders me.
good morrow ,  neighbor ,  whither away so fast ?
peace then!
being done ,  there is no pause .
my uncle clarence’s angry ghost .
look, here comes helena.
none, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
is rome still rome, and does it have room enough, when there is in it only one man?
are decius brutus and trebonius there ?
let’s go ,  because it’s already after midnight ,  and we want him on our side before daylight .
brother, i'll go and bring it to you.
you see how kind everyone is to us ,  how they just hand us gold .
of him ,  sir .
she is damned for it.
sir ,  you may thank yourself for this great loss ,  since you wouldn’t bless our europe with your daughter ,  but would rather marry her to an african; where she is ,  at least ,  out of your sight ,  you who has cause to shed tears about it .
we don’t have any ,  sir .
o devil, devil!
more legal authority, more honorable state, more courtship lives in flies on dead meat than romeo.
am i your servant ?
either you ,  or i ,  or both of us have to go with him .
my wife !
if ever you were yourself ,  and these woes yours ,  you and these woes were all for rosaline .
in a half an hour he’ll be asleep .
he want to know if will play with laertes now, or whether you will take a longer time.
by god and by saint charity, pity, and for shame, for shame!
and will he not come again ?
one weakness led to another ,  to make me hate myself .
there has never been so black a day as today .
and, good lieutenant, i think you think i love you.
silver !
here's the smell of the blood still .
goodnight ,  michael .
what color is her hair ?
just go after him and watch what he does next .
i won’t live long enough ,  and all my efforts will fail me .
i folded up the new document ,  signed it ,  sealed it ,  and put it safely back so that no one noticed any difference .
where did you learn that song ,  fool ?
two weeks and a couple of days.
i have heard that many of the best-respected men in rome,— except immortal caesar!— speak about brutus, and groaning underneath the political burden of this age, have wished that noble brutus could see what they see.
trust me ,  carthage .
neither will i .
do you hear me ,  roderigo ?
two reasons .
what you wanted is yours .
look at me now !
what’s the matter there ?
three parts of him are ours already ,  and ,  at our next meeting ,  the whole man will be ours .
everything’s ok .
does the moon shine that night we play our play?
you’re so neat and well put - together that you look like you love yourself more than anyone else .
why would they do that ,  my lord ?
the duke cannot deny the course of law, because of the benefits that strangers have with us in venice, if it is denied, it will reflect very badly on the justice of the state, because the trade and profit of the city is from all nations.
find him and tell him to come here .
be as you are accustomed to being; see as you are accustomed to seeing .
o, ho!
by god !
o, i’m killed!
by our lady ,  thirty years .
the devil take your soul !
if there’s any doubt ,  there is no doubt .
is it possible for a mutt to lend three thousand ducats ?  ”  or should i bend down low ,  and in a humble and submissive voice say:
go ahead; yell with frightening accent and distress as when a fire is seen in big cities at night and by accident .
who comes so quickly in silence of the night?
i don’t think it would be wise to let mark antony ,  whom caesar is so fond of ,  outlive caesar .
damned fact !
nothing .
the general cause?
it’s a deal.
fellow ,  come here; look at caesar .
who’s there ?
i’ll tell you later what i’ve thought about this and about these times , ; for now ,  please don’t to try to persuade me any further .
therefore stay a bit longer, you don’t need to go.
speak ,  pyramus . —thisbe ,  come forward .
and then i’ll be the leader of pain ,  and maybe i’ll lead you as far as death .
now ,  now ,  both of you gentlemen !
it was a handkerchief, an antique token my father gave my mother.
your head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat; and your head has even been beaten like a rotten egg for quarrelling .
confusion's cure doesn’t live in these confusions.
o mistress, villainy has made fun with love!
if you prick us with a pin ,  don’t we bleed ?
i forget: but these sweet thoughts even refresh my work ,  keep me very busy ,  at least when i do it .
you bastard workhorse drudge !
not for you either .
must i give in ?
no ,  not for all the world .
at supper!
what do you mean by being so stupidly fond like this on such goods ?
may your love never change until your sweet life ends !
well then ,  god forgive me !
for my own part, no offense to the general, nor any man of quality, i hope to be saved.
we have sworn, my lord, already.
still the same old cassius !
no ,  with demetrius .
see ,  who comes here ?
brutus, my lord!
i think this tale would win my daughter too .
you will always be welcome to me .
i do consent,— mark him down, antony.
are you so hot ?
i know ,  iago ,  your honesty and love minimize this matter ,  making it easier for cassio .
stop the play .
i’m helping  indeed ,  sir ,  find something better to do and get lost for a while .
my lord is so heavy !
and almost like a licensed surgeon .
look at it ,  horatio .
it is now high dinner time ,  and the night is being wasted .
what, wake up, man!
the sun glints off our armor .
don’t keep anything back ,  i insist .
as you can see ,  these lovers are looking for a place to fight .
until now ,  no one could say that only one man mattered in all of vast rome .
this is a love token from some other slut ,  and you want me to copy its pattern for you ?
i think it’s better to call it off .
is he really married ?
yes ,  my lord .
heaven thumbs its nose at it, and the moon winks; the obscene wind that kisses all it meets is quiet within the hollow tunnels of earth, and will not hear it.
hail!
carthage?
the other half goes to the state .
farewell to the plumed forces and the big wars that make ambition a virtue !
has it come to this?
obey ,  and go with me ,  because you must die .
o heavens!
and i for rosalind .
he died like someone who had practiced how to toss away his most cherished possession as if it were a worthless a piece of garbage .
nurse!
tell me ,  my spirit ,  how are the king and his followers doing ?
then i will swear to kate and you to me ,  and may our oaths be faithfully kept and prove fortunate .
he’s married to octavia .
oh ,  grief has transformed me since the last time you saw me .
they’re entirely welcome .
things that are bad make strong themselves by ill.
why do you want a sword !  ?
dinner is over ,  and we’re going to get there too late .
right on cue ,  here’s the duke himself .
to have a stupid wife .
who could be out of things to say if he were with the girl he loves ?
no ,  not at all— all right ,  all right .
i'll carry no more sticks for him, but follow you, you amazing man.
we do it wrong, its being so like the king, to offer it the show of violence, because it is, like the air, unable to be hurt, and our empty blows seem like a malicious joke.
i’m going to get my  please ,  listen to me .
he had a fever when he was in spain ,  and ,  when the fit was on him ,  i noticed how he shook .
that ?
your friend ,       artemidorus .  ”  i’ll stand here until caesar passes by ,  and i’ll give him this as though it’s a petition .
is it frailty makes mistakes like this?
hum!
tell me ,  how is my mother ?
what is, my lord?
think about our situation ,  then die .
i hope that’s all he loses .
you may appreciate him more as a soldier than as a scholar.
yes ,  i’m sure he’s dead .
you’re a scholar ,  speak to it ,  horatio .
i’ve got something for you .
but though i was born here and should consider that tradition part of my own heritage ,  i think it would be better to ignore it than practice it .
is it so brave a girl ?
i wish you’d never met him .
will you wait awhile ?
and request that she come here .
but is this law ?
to our horses ,  you gallant princes .
look for him ,  titinius ,  while i go to meet the noble brutus and force him to hear this news .
if i was ,  then i shouldn’t ask casca what had happened .
where that  “ sweetheart ”  said i was her husband !
but it’s dangerous to make him try to make sense of the time he lost .
you mean a devil !
then sure ones .
remember you !
very likely; one of them is a plain fish, and, no doubt, marketable.
alas ,  my lord ,  your wisdom is consumed in confidence !
you are welcome for his sake .
oh ,  what a fall it was ,  my countrymen !
although i may not be as graceful as you ,  so hung upon with love ,  so fortunate ,  but most miserable most ,  to love and still be unloved ?
here stands the man ,  good .
come on ,  antonio .
portia !
what kind of a man are you !
you don’t use your knowledge effectively, if you give into unexpected evil events.
you have bested many things ,  well don’t try and best me .
which plays ,  what music ?
o, you’re pale!
i go, and it’s done; the bell invites me.
swear by my sword you’ll never mention what you’ve heard .
i can see in your eyes that you’re starving .
honest ,  my lord !
or that there were similar men whose heads were in their chests?
only ,  peace !
and in this headstrong state ,  kills the hidden good old man .
the fish lives in the sea; and it takes a lot of pride for beauty outside to hide without beauty inside .
a million goodbyes to you .
you’ll soon be meeting lorenzo at supper; he’ll be a guest of your new master .
yes, honestly; because, look, the sins of the father are to be laid on the children; so, i promise you, i’m afraid you.
military music and military rites will speak for his heroic qualities .
i will fetch off my bottle, although i’ll be head over heels in muck for my efforts.
don’t do this !
caliban ,  who now serves me .
it’s pointless to talk now .
i want to go home .
you shall be a “logger-head.” good faith, it’s morning.
what play ?
what a righteous judge !
the lover ,  just as crazy ,  sees helen of troy's beauty in an egyptian .
whip me ,  you devils ,  from the possession of this heavenly sight !
listen to me ,  jessica: lock up my doors ,  and when you hear the drum ,  and the vile squealing of the long - necked pipe ,  don’t run up to the windows then ,  or thrust your head into the public street to gaze on christian fools with varnished masks; but stop my house's ears -  i mean my windows; don’t let the sound of shallow foolishness enter my sober house .
indeed i’ll never be satisfied with romeo till i see him dead .
i can’t blame you ,  old lord .
lock yourself in and send him word that you’re dead .
i don’t want to be cured ,  boy .
i wish night would come ,  like a widow dressed in black ,  so i can learn how to submit to my husband and lose my virginity .
disrespected in my own house by a spool of thread !
only, for all this, when i shall tread upon the tyrant's head, or wear it on my sword, my poor country shall still have more vices than it had before, more suffer, and in more ways than ever before, by the man who shall succeed the king.
if i have the habit of shaking ,  then proclaim that i am the doll of a girl .
you swore to me when i gave it to you that you would wear it till you died ,  and that it would be buried with you .
what did you say, my dear nurse?
please spare my innocent wife and children ! —kind warden ,  please stay with me for a while .
good pilgrim, you wrong your hand too much, which is showing devotion and good manners in this touch; for saints have hands that pilgrims' hands touch, and putting a palm to another palm is a holy pilgrim's kiss.
well ,  let’s have it ,  grumio .
i cannot think you are my son .
welcome ,  my lord .
antonio ,  thank this gentleman ,  because ,  in my opinion ,  you owe him a lot .
haven’t those in charge of it returned yet ?
go ahead to the square, brutus.
and don’t be suspicious of me ,  noble brutus .
don’t push him too far .
from the looks of him ,  he can tell us the latest news of the revolt .
be assured you may.
okay ,  now it starts !
then don’t move while i act out my prayer .
if she’d been faithful to me ,  i never would have given her up ,  not even if god himself offered me a jewel as big as a planet in exchange for her .
shame on you ,  demetrius !
i serve the king ,  who sent me here .
oh ,  the man who avenged her could ask anything of me !
and you’ve done well on land .
a living puppet show.
afraid that your anger would not subside ,  she sent you word she was dead .
great tyranny, lay your foundation solid, because goodness dare not challenge you!
i mean well ,  sir .
this balanced justice returns the ingredients of the gold cup we poisoned to our own lips .
it shall be done .
do they come from good families ?
i ask too much of you ,  but you’re always willing .
she disgusts me ,  the little hussy !
o noble caesar!
but thinking this way is not the way to choose a husband for me .
night is approaching .
the other day i saw him defeated in a
we shall not waste time before we make an accounting of your separate loves, and make us even with you.
welcome to elsinore .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
you, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts fear the smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor, may now, perhaps, both quake and tremble here, when a rough lion roars in wildest rage.
how is my noble lord ?
it turns kings into gods and men of lower rank into kings .
good master mustardseed, i know you well.
there is an emergency i must take care of ,  but my whole heart will remain here with you .
watch with what violence she first loved the moor ,  but with his bragging ,  and telling her fantastic lies .
what time is it ?
madam ,  if i do as well as i think i’m going to do in these dangerous ,  violent wars ,  you and your relatives will have more good at my hands than you’ve ever had bad !
are you the slave who ,  with your slanderous words ,  killed my innocent child ?
o dear ophelia, i am sick at the number of my sighs, i don’t have the skill to calculate my groans.
edmund ,  go find him .
then his mighty heart burst, and, in his cloak covering up his face, even at the base of pompey's statue, which was covered in blood, great caesar fell.
o ,  pitiful day that i was ever born !
here comes a spirit of his, to torment me for bringing in wood too slowly.
that she was unfaithful in marriage ?
well ,  death is the end for everybody .
he was a merry man ,  took up the child .
why did you send so many ?
i will ,  my lady ,  but a sane person reading this would make it sound crazy .
but please tell me ,  is my boy—god rest his soul—alive or dead ?
cesario ,  you missed your appointment with me .
the tiring journey seems to have made you gloomy .
take me to him .
sure ,  but don’t do it at full volume until there’s no danger in it .
i will stay covered here until the last of the storm is over.
and in a p . s .
is rosaline, who you did love so dearly, so soon forsaken?
have you returned smiling from the great battle for the world ?
are these the wretches that we threw dice for ?
o sad day!
i wish you’d do what i ask !
goblin ,  lead them up and down .
i will listen very carefully.
romeo is coming .
the king loves you very much .
it is he ,  that villain ,  romeo .
i’m being gentle with you ,  because i’m one of those good - hearted people who are polite to the devil himself .
you will be less than macbeth ,  and much greater .
so, get ready to cut off the flesh.
mark antony will say i’m not well ,  and to please you i’ll stay at home .
is it possible a young maid's sanity should be die as does an old man?
you have amazed me.
why, one that swears and lies.
when was the last time you saw my father ?
what shall i say ?
herbs ,  plants ,  and stones possess great power .
hey!
good gentlemen ,  give me permission to speak .
and now ,  who knows but you ,  lorenzo ,  whether i am yours ?
the lieutenant is part of the court’s guard tonight .
o, that we could come by caesar's spirit then and not dismember caesar!
for your broken shin .
will you come with me ?
he’s trembling in his fit !
if a christian wrongs a jew, what should his choice be by christian example?
what will you give me now for that same handkerchief?
it is two or three, my lord, that bring you word macduff is fled to england.
come here.
a beast, no more.
you a similar loss!
it’s undeniable .
stand up .
yes ,  truly ,  and so do you .
take this !
right in the middle of the fight ,  just when the battle could have gone either way—actually we had a slight advantage—that immoral egyptian nag—may she die of leprosy ! —suddenly became frightened ,  and turned her ships around and fled .
so he’s dead ?
pale as your smock!
the larger part ,  the main body of cavalry ,  are coming with cassius .
the moor!
why dover ?
your sister’s sister .
don’t listen to him ,  emilia ,  even though he’s your husband .
do it ,  and shout like the city’s on fire .
this poor guy’s partly confessed his plan .
i accept that offer happily ,  madam .
i’ll send a man to mantua ,  where that exiled rogue is living .
goodbye ,  dear mother .
antipholus has gone insane ,  no question about it .
hamlet ,  you’re dead .
oh, heavens!
fine ,  thank you .
when he needs what you have found out, it is by squeezing you, and, sponge, you shall be dry again.
of laertes?
a madness most discreet ,  a choking acid ,  and a preserving sweet .
or maybe i’ve got a hankering for a bundle of hay .
check the calendar and come tell me .
you lie there.
it will be our fault ,  who should’ve kept this mad young man on a short leash ,  restrained ,  and out of society .
he’s gone ?
everything about this is unnatural !
but as it stands ,  i wish i could believe it wasn’t .
will you be patient ?
oh ,  you  if you want to praise caesar ,  just say his name—that’s all the praise that’s necessary .
i don’t know; i am sure i am no one like that.
i thought everything out here was wild ,  which is why i acted so stern and commanding .
alas ,  i hate myself instead ,  because of the hateful deeds i’ve committed .
tomorrow ,  i’ll let you know what i’ve decided and what answer you should deliver to the king of england .
if i can trust my dreams ,  then some joyful news is coming soon .
and so do i too ,  lieutenant .
was he sent by count orsino ?
what is pyramus?
we are often to blame in this, it’s been proven often, that with devotion's face and holy actions, we sugar over the devil himself.
when the actors were talking about poison ?
it is my wretched luck.
so this letter ,  which is so incredibly stupid and ignorant ,  isn’t going to scare him at all .
i’d better stop up my ears against this siren’s song .
no ,  that's not so .
i’d rather be anything besides a fool .
if they’re not honest ,  they shouldn’t look like they are !
bernardo ?
do i speak to you kindly ?
for shame!
it might as well be the same with caesar .
what's in a name ?
i won’t have any of this .
o heavenly powers ,  restore him !
there was ,  for a while ,  no money paid for debate unless the poet and the player fought over the question .
she’s round ,  like a globe .
o young and noble cato, are you down?
are you busy now, holy father, or shall i come to you at evening mass?
you’re a fool .
i have brought you from venice .
me too ,  i won’t ,  i swear to god .
well ,  the tree bears rotten fruit .
no doubt ,  for you wear too many in the first place ,  and it might be more seemly to make do with fewer .
i see your own business needs you ,  and you take this opportunity to leave .
i'll follow you; i'll lead you in a circle ,  through bog ,  through bush ,  through more bushes ,  through brier; sometimes i’ll be a horse ,  sometimes a hound dog ,  a hog ,  a headless bear ,  sometimes a fire; and neigh ,  and bark ,  and grunt ,  and roar ,  and burn ,  like horse ,  hound ,  hog ,  bear ,  fire ,  at every turn .
o my, where are you?
if we lose this battle, then this is the very last time we shall speak together.
that's the dog's name.
who’s blocking the way ?
i wish you were someone else’s son .
you and i will be behind a curtain then, listening to their encounter.
heavens protect him from these beasts !
who’s next ?
and if he doesn’t deserve this joy on earth ,  he’ll never deserve it in heaven .
where’s dolabella ?
o, their bones, their bones!
why, even in that was heaven good to me.
young man ,  have you challenged charles the wrestler ?
arrest me if you dare .
ah ,  the immortal forward thrust !
sit down ,  jessica .
where are you coming from ?
my lord ?
oh my ,  oh my !
i almost recognize that voice .
by mary, our play is—the most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of pyramus and thisbe.
i’ll kill him, and she kills me.
teach me how i should think and speak .
watch her .
then ,  if we lose this battle ,  you’re contented to be led in triumph thorough the streets of rome ?
good mercutio !
what gentleman ?
and ,  sister ,  as the winds will be favorable and the ships are strong to sail ,  don’t sleep ,  until you let me hear from you .
i came here with a fool’s head on my shoulders and now i’m leaving with two . —goodbye ,  sweet lady .
here ,  sir !
thank you ,  madam .
this is the dauphin’s message .
i thank you.
i hope to see good days—and many of them .
my husband !
if its juice is put on someone’s eyelids while they’re asleep ,  that person will fall in love with the next living creature he or she sees .
i can arrange it so that at some indecent hour of the night ,  she looks out hero’s bedroom window .
plantagenet .
perhaps a woman’s voice may do some good when some small detail proves to be holding things up .
before i open his letter ,  please tell me how my good friend is doing .
can any prayers get through to you?
of him, sir.
yes ,  it truly is .
something about cyprus .
keep quiet ,  keep quiet .
if you’re a member of a divine spiritual order of men who forgive sins ,  and you say you’re my friend ,  how do you have the heart to mangle me with the word banishment ?
i see that you don’t know me .
in such a night young lorenzo swore he loved her well, stealing her soul with many vows of love,— and never a true one.
what you say is true .
yes ,  by god ,  that it is .
indeed ,  she gives a very good testimony of the snake’s power .
madam ,  i am not well .
do you make your living by playing that drum ?
quickly ,  quickly; fear nothing; i'll be at your elbow .
i know a lady in venice would have walked barefoot to palestine for a touch of his lower lip .
i won’t answer that .
yes ,  if that would be all right with your lordship .
i swear ,  it must be thirty years .
why do you make such faces ?
to choose love by what another person sees !
put out the light ,  and then put out the light .
let’s have the evidence .
hold him in safety until the prince arrives .
i know the sound of his walk . —die ,  villain !
it was addressed to him ,  and orders must be obeyed .
but there was a rumor—you know ,  people always gossip about royalty—that he was in love with the beautiful olivia .
in your bad strokes ,  brutus ,  you give good words .
holy gonzalo, honorable man, my eyes, even sociable to the show of your eyes, cry like yours.
and i still do, by these thieves and robbers.
tonight we’ll wander through the streets and observe the people .
the woman falls; surely, he has killed his wife.
you probably killed a lot of his men ?
for god's love ,  let me hear what you have to say .
please ,  sir ,  don’t trouble yourself .
i know you will say ,   “ yes ,  ”  and i will take your word .
yet he seems capable .
i am nothing but a poor ,  used fool .
and now ,  good sweetheart ,  tell me your opinion ,  how do you like lord bassanio's wife ?
i’d better not drink now .
was that the prologue or the inscription on some wedding ring ?
where else should they be set?
we’ll leave tonight and be home a day before our husbands get back .
please, is my master returned yet?
how could you ask ?
here comes sir oliver .
god be at your table!
no?
let’s get out of here .
well ,  you have made a foolish choice .
yes ,  captain ,  but with this acknowledgement—that god fought for us .
one; two; why, then it is time to do it.
and now, good sweetheart, tell me your opinion, how do you like lord bassanio's wife?
did he confess it?
it is not expressly stated; but so what ?
what can i do for you ,  sir ?
this is the only witchcraft i have used .
am i that name, iago?
you piece of filth ,  you’re lying !
yes ,  with cassio .
you’re a liar!
i feel my stomach squeezing up against my heart .
if you will please break this up, it will become clear.
you’ll be ashamed of this forever !
it seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an ethiopian’s ear; beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
yes; here i brought it for him into the court; yes ,  twice the sum; if that is not enough ,  i’ll swear to pay it ten times over on penalty of the loss of my hands ,  my head ,  my heart; if this is not enough ,  it must seem that evil wins over truth .
for a full half hour .
where is this king?
we two ,  my lord ,  will guard your person while you sleep ,  and watch for your safety .
demetrius loves her ,  and he doesn’t love you .
good heavens ,  those are difficult directions .
until then ,  sit still ,  my soul .
hail, brave friend!
mark antony,— pardon me, caius cassius.
unfaithful to me!
things have fallen out ,  sir ,  so unluckily that we have had no time to talk to our daughter .
leave me quickly .
by mary ,  have patience; or i shall say you are totally in a temper ,  and not a man .
why do you speak so haltingly and angrily?
o you foul thief ,  where have you hidden my daughter ?
therefore be double - damned ,  swear you are honest .
either i had to ruin you ,  or you would have ruined me .
so do we all.
it’s not good for your peace or your wellbeing, or for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom to let you know my thoughts.
if you don’t mind ,  i need to rest a bit .
he’s a lord to a lord and a man to a man .
why would you give birth to sinners?
what ,  would you let a snake bite you twice ?
no ,  my noble lord .
he’s his mother’s child from head to toe .
richard ,  the duke of gloucester ,  is very dangerous ,  and the queen’s sons and brothers are haughty and proud—it would be better for this ailing country if they were subjects ,  not rulers .
here, and your baggage back where you found it.
i see you surrounded by the finest nobles in the kingdom that speak my greetings by their thoughts, whose voices i want to hear loudly with mine: hail, king of scotland!
where is the beauteous majesty of denmark ?
get out of here ,  good fleance ,  run ,  run ,  run !
if  well ,  i’ll just forget the difficulties of my situation ,  in order to focus on the happiness of yours .
i have said it .
i must go and continue the business fulvia started .
deceived, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
are you there ,  trusty fellow ?
sweet desdemona!
is cassius nearby ?
why, the rumors are all saying that antonio has a ship of rich cargo wrecked on the narrow seas; i think they call the place the goodwins, a very dangerous, flat, and fatal place, where the dead bodies of many tall ships are buried, as they say, if my gossip reporter is an honest woman of her word.
don’t follow me .
i swear ,  if anyone holds me back ,  i’ll make a ghost of him !
have you stolen it from her ?
if she’s cheated on me ,  then heaven itself is a fake .
and what did surrey say to that ?
i didn’t.
why i should fear ,  i don’t know ,  since i don’t know guiltiness ,  but yet i feel i fear .
greetings ,  good general !
my lord ,  his majesty wanted me to tell you that he’s placed a large bet on you .
my body waits here ,  but the rest of me is gone .
your tale ,  sir ,  would cure deafness .
he says i won’t get into heaven because i’m a jew’s daughter ,  and he says you’re irresponsible because by converting jews to christianity you’re raising the price of pork .
i eat the air ,  crammed with promises .
we’re talking here in a public place .
if your messenger can’t find him there ,  look for him in the other place yourself .
if i had as many mouths as a seven - headed goddess ,  such an answer would shut them all .
good - bye then ,  until the time i see you dressed in your battle gear ,  which will suit you both very well .
what is it ?
i humbly thank your ladyship .
no ,  i’d rather you stayed here .
i have a pain on my forehead here.
anyway ,  jessica ,  go inside .
what’s wrong, general!
i cannot move.
i swear ,  if i should live a thousand yeas ,  i never should forget it; 'won’t you ,  jule ?
oh excellent !
all other devils who tempt people to treason patch together some motive ,  put together from shreds
yes, but the clerk that never means to do it, unless he lives until he is a man.
or leave either: but you'll lie like dogs ,  and still say nothing neither .
i don’t have anywhere to go ,  so i don’t need to see .
go to a convent, go.
if he said so ,  may his evil soul rot half a grain a day !
take me to the edge of it ,  and i’ll reward all your troubles with something valuable .
why then ,  lead on .
i don’t know anything that i said or did wrong this night ,  unless self - love is sometimes a vice ,  and to defend ourselves is a sin when we are attacked violently .
i ask for him ,  and he comes .
but if you knew to whom you give this friendship ,  how true a gentleman you send in relief ,  how dear a friend of my lord is your husband ,  i know you show more pride in the work than accustomed behavior can make you show .
i cannot live to hear the news from england, but i do predict that the throne belongs to fortinbras.
if i’m a wasp ,  look out for my stinger .
who here is so rude that they wouldn’t be a roman ?
a kinder gentleman does not walk on the earth.
just the same, i'll hide close by.
your highnesses can both attest to the fact that i’ve strived mightily ,  with all my wits and energy ,  to bring about this royal meeting between you two imperial majesties .
honest iago’s arranged that .
i’m seizing your lands and all that you possess until your brother gives testimony that absolves you of any guilt .
forever showering?
i thank you ,  valiant cassio .
what’s she doing now?
alas, my lord, your wisdom is consumed in confidence!
hamlet, remember me.
bad luck ,  bad luck ?
do you hear us ,  sir ?
if not ,  come when you have the courage .
it’s pathetic to be caesar .
educated men are so impressive !
hello !
now ,  good angels preserve the king !
are you so patient that you can let this go?
i’m sure you have your hands full preparing for the sudden festivities .
i’ll carry prayer books in my pocket and look sweet—even more .
malcolm!
you know i’m powerful enough to make you pay for this .
and i do think— or else this brain of mine doesn’t know the trail of policy as surely as it used to do—, that i have found the very cause of hamlet's lunacy.
my new master is expecting your approach .
to mourn mischief that is over and gone is the next way to create new mischief.
what!
the clock has struck three.
i think he’ll stand with us very strongly .
get out of here ,  you measly ,  lying wretch .
don’t say that .
in faith ,  i am sorry that you’re not well .
go, some of you, and bring these gentlemen where hamlet is.
the moor is being tricked by some crook ,  some terrible villain ,  some rotten bastard .
what place?
yes, my good lord.
excellent wretch !
what a heavy sigh !
you should ask me what time of day it is ,  instead .
you have guessed exactly what i feared .
bring them before us.
all this?
i thank you for your pains and courtesy .
i’d endure it until he came home again .
my life for yours .
so i will turn her virtue into black tar, and out of her own goodness make the net that shall tangle them all up.
and even though nature has given us the wit to have this argument ,  hasn’t fortune sent this fool here to stop us ?
do i talk to you sweetly ?
you have to pretend to be your niece’s father ,  and give her away to claudio .
we don’t need to hear it .
oh ,  yes ,  i’m sorry ,  uncle . —if you’ll excuse me ,  your grace .
enough .
do i have the asp’s poison on my lips ?
we’ll write it in alternating eight -  and six - syllable lines ,  just like in a ballad .
if i had been any god of power, i would have sunk the sea on the earth, before it would have swallowed the good ship and the souls that were her cargo.
i would take nine years to kill him .
what time is it ?
let it be their comfort that we are coming there.
and so return to you, and nothing else?
the horsemen stand frozen like candlesticks ,  torches in their hands .
what says the golden chest ?
think about it carefully .
romeo !
stop!
indeed ,  that is out of the air .
sweet lady, you have given me life and living, because here i read for certain that my ships have safely come home.
i have my naked sword out .
o life !
this pantomime was probably a summary of the play .
killing pigs .
so prepare to die .
earth's increase ,  plenty of feasting ,  barns and storage for game never empty; vines growing with clustering bunches of grapes; plants bowing with heavy loads of fruit ; spring come to you as long as possible ,  even to the very end of harvest !
should be ?
as i neglected practical matters ,  being totally dedicated to solitude and to improving my mind with subjects more valuable than most people imagine ,  i was so shut away from the world that i unwittingly stirred up evil wishes in my disloyal brother .
a roman .
but what are you doing in elsinore ?
that skull had a tongue in it ,  and could sing once .
beg her to fix this broken joint between you and her husband, and, i’ll bet against any thing worth naming, this crack in your love shall grow stronger than it was before.
don’t ask me to talk about it .
or like a whale.
for god’s sake ,  shut up !
this above all ,  to your own self be true ,  and it must follow ,  as the night the day ,  you cannot then be false to any man .
and to what?
not until you pass out .
damn it all !
well ,  i hope you stay in that frame of mind or some poor man will end up with his face all scratched up .
by the way ,  i’m going home tomorrow ,  sir toby .
no ,  for that we should be coal miners .
portia ,  forgive me this forced wrong; and in the hearing of these many friends ,  i swear to you ,  even by your own beautiful eyes ,  that i see myself in , — listen ,  only that !
not the one, i hope, that you got from me.
let’s do so, because we are on trial, and surrounded by many enemies, and some that have smiles in their hearts, i’m afraid, are capable of millions of evil deeds.
quick !
take it ,  brave york .
again ,  goodbye .
bring me this plant ,  and get back here before the sea monster has time to swim three miles .
name him .
let me see his face .
peter!
welcome ,  mistress .
well, my good lady.
only dead for two months !
tell me where is fancy bred, in the heart or in the head, how begot, how nourished?
i will have it all mine .
in religion ,  what damned error is there that some sober face will bless it ,  and approve it with a text ,  hiding the grossness with a beautiful ornament ?
some kinds of lowly activities are done for noble reasons .
i must stop you, cimber.
as i am an honest man ,  i thought you had received some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than in reputation .
over your wounds—which ,  like speechless mouths ,  open their red lips ,  as though to beg me to speak—i predict that a curse will fall upon the bodies of men .
so often as that shall be, so often shall the group of us be called the men that gave their country liberty.
speak, i command you.
i know you two are rival enemies; how does this gentle concord in the world come about ,  that hatred is so far from jealousy that you can sleep without fear ?
my wife!
i said your husband.
widow dido!
god save the charitable organization !
and so ,  good morning to all of you .
you were the doctor, and i didn’t know you?
have you got permission to go to confession today?
the devil speaks in him.
nurse ,  where's my daughter ?
we age and die because they wear us out .
you ,  i think ,  would best know what he’s thinking .
from that cabin i’d call out to my soul .
o heavenly powers, restore him!
you thought you were being funny ,  but you said the truth .
your face is mine ,  and you have slandered it .
this is very true ,  and he begged me to invite your majesties to hear and see the play .
you look pale and wild, and these signs some bad luck.
she has the patience of a  i’ll see you hanged on sunday first !
yes .
you’ve probably heard about the  “ change ”  that’s come over hamlet—that’s the only word for it ,  since inside and out he’s different from what he was before .
here it’s ,  most reverend doctor; here it is .
he’s not sick in the brain ?
by the light of heaven ,  no ,  i would not !
give me some light.
the best way to be happy is to be in between .
madam ,  here comes my lord .
your statue spouting blood through many holes ,  in which many smiling romans bathed ,  means that you’ll provide great rome with sustaining blood ,  and that great men will strive to get some token of approval from your holy blood .
looking toward england ,  we reminisced about the countless frightening experiences we’d had in the wars between the yorks and the lancasters .
i doubt it is none other than the main reason ,  his father's death and our overly hasty marriage .
you push me far ,  and so i’ll give in .
the english force ,  so please you .
why ?
any strange beast there can be considered a man .
leave ,  you little man .
good hermia ,  please don’t act so bitter toward me .
i don’t believe it .
now ,  most noble brutus ,  the gods are friendly today ,  so that we may ,  friends in peace ,  increase our days to old age !
you kiss like you’ve studied how .
why ,  you’re absolutely right ,  cousin .
o ,  villain that i am !
have you slain him ,  then ?
if we should fail ?
he was a great human being .
shall i come down ?
he mustn’t go to prison .
a maiden never bold ,  of a spirit so still and quiet that she blushed at her own movements; and she ,  in spite of nature ,  of years ,  of country ,  reputation ,  everything ,  to fall in love with what she feared to look at !
if i prove her unfaithful, although that her leashes were my dear heartstrings, i'd suddenly go away, and let her follow the wind to plunder fortune.
with no toasts ,  you might as well stay home ,  because away from home ,  ceremony is the sauce to meat ,  getting together would be bare without it .
indeed, the top of admiration; worth what's dearest to the world!
sweetheart, goodbye!
how dare i ?
we shall lose our opportunity ,  and we’ll all be turned into geese ,  or into apes with villainous ,  low foreheads .
follow me if you’re brave enough ,  and we’ll fight over helena .
i could marry that maria for thinking this up .
is her voice pitched high or low ?
banquo !
he’ll tell them so .
tell me ,  who is this knight ?
wake up ,  i say !
as long as i’m alive ,  i’ll be here .
he wants to eat the english .
who’s that at the gate ,  uncle ?
if mortuaries and our graves must send those that we bury back, our tombs shall be the stomachs of birds.
what are you going to tell her ,  nurse ?
and i see her also through the eyes of love .
you told me they snuck into this forest, and i’m here and wander within this forest, because i cannot meet hermia.
i beg you both that ,  being childhood friends and brought up with him ,  and since you know well his youth and disposition ,  that you will be pleased to rest here in our court for a while ,  so that ,  with your company ,  you draw him on to enjoy himself ,  and to gather ,  so much as from any occasion you may glean ,  whether anything ,  unknown to us ,  afflicts him like this ,  that ,  once we know ,  we can make better .
from the earth’s womb ,  many different sorts of plants and animals come forth ,  and the earth provides her children with many excellent forms of nourishment .
cassio ,  my lord ,  has killed a young venetian called roderigo .
be quiet ,  people !
filth, you lie!
this guy is exactly the kind of person your sister warned us about . —come on ,  bring in the stocks ,  now !
don’t you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came here in the company of the marquis of montserrat?
my father in his clothes as he lived!
beautiful is disgustingly filthy, and disgustingly filthy is beautiful.
we see the ground on which these sorrows lie, but we cannot find the true ground of all these piteous woes without knowing what happened.
go tell the priests to do the sacrifice now, and bring me their opinions of success.
i will drown myself immediately .
yes ,  and a bold one ,  that has the courage to look on a sight which might shock the devil .
no .
you were never with me for anything if you weren’t there for the goose .
once she exclaimed ,   “ sisters ,  sisters ,  shame on you !
guys who’d take her with all her faults ,  provided there were enough money involved .
you know too much about suffering .
god bless you ,  sir .
my lord ,  i have news for you .
i know you know something— thanks for the compliment ,  i’m happy you know that .
what lights are coming ?
my gracious lord ,  i should tell you what i saw ,  but i don’t know how to say it .
for us and for our tragedy, here stooping to your clemency, we beg you listen patiently.
or come back to life again and challenge me to a duel in some deserted place .
o, by whom?
it’s proper that we speak first ,  which is why we sent our proposals ahead of us for your consideration .
give me your hand .
a devil, a born devil, on whose nature kindness can never stick; on whom my pains, taken humanely are all, all lost, quite lost; and as his body grows uglier with age, so his mind is diseased.
i’ll reward you once for your cheerfulness and ten times for your courage .
well, my good lord, i'll do it.
let me be cursed if i marry again !
you torture me, tubal: it was my turquoise ring; i got from leah, my wife, when i was still single; i wouldn’t have traded it for a wilderness of monkeys.
by the way ,  i don’t want anyone thinking i’m drunk .
up and down ,  up and down ,  i will lead them up and down .
look ,  look !
and that mr .  shore’s wife has nice feet ,  cherry lips ,  pretty eyes ,  and a very pleasant way of expressing herself .
before god, an excellent song.
no ,  it would be better to speak first and kiss only after you’ve run out of things to say .
gentleness is the only way to go—gently ,  gently .
no problem ,  madam .
gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where i can find young romeo ?
may god ,  who is the best matchmaker ,  join your hearts and realms in one .
it’s worthless .
canidius and the others that left antony are given hospitality here but no positions of trust .
help me ,  ladies !
there ,  take it ,  prince ,  and if my picture lies there ,  then i am yours .
now two things still need to be done .
what a head i’ve got!
great jove, guard othello, and swell his sail with your own powerful breath, that he may bless this bay with his tall ship, make love's quick breaths in desdemona's arms, give renewed fire to our dead spirits, and bring all cyprus comfort!
but not in heaven .
if i can just get him to drink one more glass after what he’s drunk already ,  he’ll be as argumentative and eager to fight as a little dog .
no ,  not too upset .
let them start the battle immediately because i see only cold appearances in octavius' part of the army ,  and a sudden push will overthrow them .
nobody; i myself.
o ,  help me here !
i have no hope that he's not drowned .
but i don’t hate orlando .
but quiet ,  be quiet a minute .
bring them to me .
and what's in prayer except this double force, to be prevented from falling down, or pardoned since we are down?
i’ll do it.
help me here, hello!
please understand a plain man in his plain meaning: let your fellows come on, bid them cover the table, serve in the meat, and we’ll come in to dinner.
you mean ,  to bear me ,  not to bear        my protector ,  richard ,  insists on it .
how can that be ,  unless she drowned herself in her own defense ?
he doesn’t have children .
tell me what a drunk is like ,  fool .
i should sin only to think nobly of my grandmother: good women have had bad sons .
so ,  she’s in on this too !
i swear ,  somehow the fool has been cheated out of all my money .
gentle octavia ,  support the one that supports you .
sir ,  before this audience ,  let my denial of evil intent give me immunity in your most generous thoughts as though i have shot my arrow over the house and hurt my brother .
the general got rid of us early tonight so he could be with desdemona . —i can’t blame him .
the sun will not show his head for sorrow.
is it not enough ,  is it not enough ,  young man ,  that i’ll never be pretty enough to get a kind look from demetrius ?
be a careful mother ,  madam ,  and think about your son ,  the young prince .
yes ,  my lord .
this is pure insanity .
i swear by my sword— swear by your shield ,  too !
in this way, the candle has burned the moth.
if, rather than to marry count paris you have the strength of will to kill yourself, then is it likely you will try something like death to chase this shame away, something that will cover you with death himself, to escape from it?
if i don’t love her ,  i’m completely
follow me .
let me get her.
there was no need to tell me to get out of there .
although birnam wood did come to dunsinane ,  and you against me ,  being given birth to by a woman ,  i will still fight to the end .
you conspire against your friend ,  iago ,  if you only think him wronged and won’t let him be anything but a stranger to your thoughts .
well, girl, you are weeping not so much for his death as for the villain who lives who slaughtered him.
so ,  i beg you ,  go with me .
but if you don’t mean well, i beg you, madam!
oh ,  dear husband ,  don’t believe everything you hear—or if you must believe it ,  don’t let it all make you angry .
i don’t know how to play it ,  my lord .
it is written that shoemakers and tailors should play with each others' tools ,  that fisherman should play with paints ,  and painters should play with with fishing nets .
no, answer me.
sing it tonight .
where is my romeo?
banquo and macbeth ,  all hail !
when i opened my eyes ,  i saw their swords out .
o ,  so light a foot will never wear out the everlasting sharpening stone .
what has he said ?
where do you think he is now ?
or if you’ve got some buried treasure somewhere ,  which they say often makes ghosts restless ,  then tell us about it .
i am one ,  my liege ,  whom has been so angered by the vile blows and beatings of the world that i am reckless in what i would do to spite the world .
could he dig without arms ?
the gods are fair ,  and they use our little vices to punish us .
nothing’s ours ,  all's been spent ,  where we got what we wanted ,  but without content .
the word is too good to represent her wickedness .
indeed ,  on my sword ,  indeed .
don’t be afraid .
this tyrant, whose only name blisters our tongues, was once thought honest.
it may be that his antagonist is a gentleman of very high degree ,  quite outside of his own sphere .
the adult snake lies in the ditch .
this wretch has part confessed his villainy .
from fife ,  great king; where the norwegian banners insult the sky and ,  like a fan ,  make our people cold .
i only think of the world as the world ,  gratiano; a stage ,  where every man must play a part ,  and my part is a sad one .
what love could press lysander from my side?
actually, even by losing his mind.
i wish i had met my dearest enemy in heaven before i had ever seen that day, horatio!
read the time there .
it’s dark ,  like my shoe .
who was it that came here ?
farewell!
of nothing .
o me, lieutenant!
the wood of birnam.
by his side lies the noble earl of suffolk ,  york’s comrade and equal in brave wounds .
certainly, sir, i can.
out ,  out ,  brief candle !
live in the moment .
besides ,  there’s no king ,  however pure his cause ,  who ,  if it comes to a trial by combat ,  can rely on using completely blameless soldiers .
if he is ready now, i am too, now or whenever, provided that i am so able as i am now.
your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome; and, i guarantee, a virtuous gentleman where is your mother?
am i a married man or a bachelor?
heaven preserve you !
you’ll see ,  i promise you .
sir ,  sir !
it will not be seen in him there.
hail ,  king of scotland !
tell me ,  you villainous lowlife ,  where are my children ?
see ,  the snail already has its horns ,  which prevents nasty rumors from spreading about his wife’s infidelity .
i’d rather be a toad in a moldy basement than to have only a part of someone i love ,  sharing the rest of her with others .
a drum ,  a drum !
it is .
he doesn’t long for the dawn as we do .
if our play had gone forward, we would’ve all been made men.
crowned by the golden sun ,  observed his heroic son and smiled to see him mangle the work of nature ,  french youth whose fathers and god had nurtured for twenty years ,  since they were babies .
well ,  all right then .
you weren’t good enough for her .
that’s true, if the devil may be her judge.
what minor god has come so near to making a woman ?
i know you’ll offer nothing less than that .
why shouldn’t i ?
to you, antonio, i owe the most, in money and in friendship, and, from your friendship, i have a guarantee to get rid of all my plots and intentions as to how to get clear all the debts i owe.
she’ll find out soon enough by one of our messengers how respectfully and kindly we plan to treat her .
if you'll sit down, i'll carry your logs the while.
drown cats and blind puppies .
here is a friar ,  and dead romeo's man ,  with instruments on him that are fit to open these dead men's tombs .
i doubt it is none other than the main reason, his father's death and our overly hasty marriage.
no .
when it is paid according to the terms .
one fairer than my love?
in this slumbery agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances, what, at any time, have you heard her say?
what prisoners of rank have been taken ,  uncle ?
if you like ,  we’ll stand by and wait to do whatever you need .
but let’s see once more what the gold one says:  “ he who chooses me will get what many men want .  ”  that’s portia !
go ahead ,  swear to that ,  so you’ll be damned to hell for lying .
yes ,  caesar ,  but it’s not gone yet .
that’s true .
who here is so rude that they wouldn’t be a roman?
my lord bassanio, since you have found antonio, we’ll leave you; but, at dinnertime, please remember where we’re meeting.
faith, the rumor goes that you shall marry her.
the play's the thing wherein i’ll see the conscience of the king.
strike as you did at caesar, because i know, when you hated him the worst, you loved him better than ever you loved cassius.
to die ,  to sleep—to sleep ,  maybe to dream .
what would he do if he had the motive and the cue for passion that i have ?
oh ,  no ,  good gentleman !
you see me here ,  gods ,  a grieving old man ,  as wretched in his grief as he is in his old age .
to kill him, clitus.
excuse me .
and indeed he did so.
even if it’s not better ,  your first marriage is over .
you shall have nothing but the penalty to be so taken at your own risk ,  jew .
sweet desdemona !
o my son ,  what theme ?
they ought to be whipped for being so stupid .
it’s a most holy and religious fear to keep those many ,  many bodies safe that depend upon your majesty .
do you know them?
as eagerly as i ever came from school .
do you hear me ?
oh ,  she tears that letter into a thousand small pieces and berates herself for being so forward as to write a letter to a man she knows would mock her .
flies may do this, when i must fly from this.
i’m glad to see you .
i do ,  and it sounds like you’re talking in your sleep .
is she to be buried in christian burial when she wilfully seeks her own salvation ?
why are you up now ?
now, i swear, she is a gentile and no jew.
grab down chairs, windows, anything.
i’ll speak as sharp as a dagger to her ,  but i won’t use one on her .
signior brabantio ,  ho !
did you see the weird sisters ?
wait ,  here’s a penny to heal your head .
the baron of cawdor lives .
o ,  you are well tuned now !
don’t .
i’ll
cassio ,  my lord !
no ,  my dear ,  you were a little angel who kept me going .
who is he that was not born of woman ?
you are gentlemen of brave spirit: you would lift the moon out of her orbit if she would continue in it for five weeks without changing.
yes ,  leave that labor to great hercules—it’s worse than the previous twelve put together .
you mean however they dare .
it is the very mistake of the moon; she comes more nearer earth than she usually does and makes men mad .
but a handkerchief— god ,  i wish i could forget about the handkerchief !
no ,  guiltiness will speak even if tongues are out of use .
that he was never trained as a soldier .
ready .
now ,  antony ,  our prayers are answered .
but you’re still my child ,  my flesh and blood—or rather you’re a disease in my flesh ,  a disease i still have to call my own .
to leave his wife, to leave his babes, his mansion, and his titles, in a place that he himself flies from?
i’ll write a letter challenging him to a duel on your behalf .
sure and firm - set earth ,  don’t hear my steps ,  which ever way they walk ,  for fear your very stones disclose my whereabouts ,  and take the current horror from the time ,  which now suits it .
naked ,  ”  he says .
therefore ,  when he has reason to fear ,  as we do ,  his fears are without question of the same order .
for your house , —briefly .
if this young gentleman has offended you ,  i’ll take the blame for it .
can’t you just hate me, as i know you do, instead of joining together to mock me too?
they must lie there .
get some rest, tonight we'll feast together.
that ,  my best friend ,  might still inflame you with passion for the crown ,  in addition to the title of the baron of cawdor .
pick me up .
did you talk with this woman ?
she never was still foolish that was beautiful ,  because even her folly helped her have an heir .
it’s a long story—and tough to listen to .
i'll send her to you right away ,  and i'll devise a plan to get the moor out of the way ,  that your conversation and business may be more free .
look !
i have not deserved this .
my man—monster is so drunk he can’t talk .
by god ,  i’m going to tell the duke how slack you’ve been .
i have heard that guilty creatures ,  sitting at a play ,  have been so struck to the soul by the very cunning of the scene that presently they have confessed their evil deeds ,  because murder ,  although it is silent ,  will speak with its own most miraculous organ ,  i’ll have these players play something like the murder of my father before my uncle .
lay me next to my mistress .
he’s like a huge wheel on the top of the highest mountain whose spokes touch the rim of ten thousand smaller things—when it falls down the mountain ,  every little object goes down with it .
you’ve got some petition to caesar ,  haven’t you ?
that’s true .
no ?
very good !
give me some comfort ,  nurse .
good enobarbus !
so hangs, and lolls, and weeps on me; so hales and pulls me.
the more i pray ,  the less i get out of it .
do so; and after two days, i will set you free.
shall we go watch this wrestling ,  cousin ?
no ,  i’m not wound up .
if i may trust what happens while i sleep ,  my dreams predict some joyful news is coming .
the fact that he serves as a go - between for his lord and my niece olivia confirms this .
i thought it was all for the best .
don’t make me wait for dinner even a moment .
alas, the day!
if we imagine no worse of them than they imagine of themselves, they may pass for excellent men.
i’m off ,  my lord .
here .
why should the poor be flattered?
your worship's friend ,  and launcelot ,  sir .
we
take my hand ,  hastings .
out, i say!
where are you going?
that’s true .
i heard the galloping of horse.
all school - days' friendship ,  childhood innocence ?
the sailors are all below deck ,  sleeping both from their labor and from a magic spell i cast over them .
then surrender ,  you coward ,  and live to be the center of attention of the times .
within the very flame of love ,  there lives a kind of wick or snuff that will put it out ,  and nothing is worse than goodness staying still ,  for goodness ,  growing to an infectious flu ,  dies in his own too much .
so a snowy dove trooping with crows shows as yonder lady over her fellows shows.
everybody knows i’m a nice piece of flesh .
dissolute lowlife ,  you shall die .
what shall i do for you ?
o wretched fool ,  that lives to make your honesty a vice !
where is my page?
poor knave, i don’t blame you; you’ve been wake up too long.
and whatever we do ,  we can lay all the blame on the drunken servants .
why are you calling him a jerk ?
the king has strictly forbidden it .
see—i’ve sealed his fate with this mark next to his name .
i think he’s actually serious ,  and not just being polite .
he swears he used to be a courtier .
have you forgotten who i am ?
who’s this ?
yes ,  my lord .
not to his father’s house .
this night i hold an old feast that i’ve always given ,  to which i have invited many guests ,  people i love; and if you will be among the guests ,  you’ll be one more ,  most welcome ,  and will make my guests more .
no ,  as i am a christian .
make room!
how  what ,  are you jealous ,  oberon ? —fairies ,  let’s get out of here .
one more, and this is the last; so sweet was never so fatal.
what ,  everybody falls asleep so fast ?
you don’t speak as you think; it cannot be .
you must know that the snake will act according to his nature .
who’s she ?
at nine.
there’s nothing else .
what’s there to say ?
i hear him nearby.
why ,  he’s the prince’s fool ,  and a very dull fool at that .
i wish the night were here now !
if i do so ,  it will mean more if i say it behind your back than if i say it to your face .
if the devil had such a beautiful house as his body ,  then good things would fight to live in it .
a spiteful, self-willed, badly behaved child, she is.
yes ,  and that’s surprising ,  because lovers are usually early .
tell me ,  rainbow ,  do you know if either venus ,  the goddess of love ,  or her son ,  cupid ,  is accompanying queen juno ?
but then i saw no harm ,  and then i heard each syllable that was exchanged between them .
i don’t understand all dat .
o you immortal gods!
come ,  gertrude ,  we'll call up our wisest friends ,  and let them know both what we mean to do and what's done at an unfortunate time .
very good ,  sir .
when caesar says ,   " do this ,  "  i do it .
let me draw the curtains .
no .
sebastian was my father’s name ,  and my brother was named sebastian too .
and there’s no need for wonder or worry .
that’s what she was expecting ,  and you let her down .
now ,  this overacting ,  or lateness ,  though it make the ignorant laugh ,  can only make the experienced grieve ,  in whose opinion ,  you must outdo a whole theatre of other audiences in your performance .
all but metellus cimber ,  and he's gone to your house to find you .
my father in his clothes as he lived !
this just may cheer me up .
come on ,  sir ,  please .
he got what he deserved .
let me see:  “ who chooses me shall gain what many men desire .  ”  what many men desire !
also against nature .
are you trying to remake me ?
how did my master die ,  strato ?
i have long thought i would see this morning's face, and does it give me such a sight as this?
no ,  my lord .
yes ,  my lord ,  if it pleases you .
is that a tradition ?
come over here; i am here .
if you tickle us ,  don’t we laugh ?
hide yourself ,  good romeo .
go away !
explain .
and this is why your servants hang their heads in sorrow !
but don’t go with it !
oh ,  i wish she knew how much i love her .
indeed, la, without an oath, i’ll make an end on it.
god forgive me!
it
his sword ,  which was declining on the milky head of reverend priam ,  seemed in the air to stick .
what !
and subjects of the dane .
give him the cup.
good noble ladies ,  be brave .
i must hide in the darkness for awhile .
do i wrong my enemies?
indeed ,  my lord ,  the gloomy jaques grieves over these deaths .
regan gives good advice .
an adulterer's a monster and a beast .
spirit, we must prepare to meet with caliban.
i’ll follow you .
poison ,  i see ,  has been his timeless end .
poison, i see, has been his timeless end.
i thank you, valiant cassio.
how can i avoid committing a sin ,  unless the husband that heaven sent me dies ?
what is your name?
what do you say ,  caesar ?
a constant pain to me !
there’s no crab - apple here ,  so don’t look sour .
and if you wrong us, shouldn’t we seek revenge?
yes ,  for your own safety ,  you should deny one thing: you have been a great thief at sea .
you know that we parted only seven years ago ,  in syracuse .
you ,  my slave ,  were her servant at the time ,  as you admit yourself .
i’m telling you ,  i hardly know myself .
please hear what goneril is saying .
antipholus owes me the exact amount that i owe you .
why do you storm so ?
so could i .
listen up ,  uncle .
heigh - ho ! —peter quince !
thriftless ambition ,  that will plunder your own life's means !
i’ve felt neglected recently ,  but i decided that it was more likely that i was being hypersensitive than that they were intentionally unkind .
gracious my lord ,  i would report what i say i saw ,  only i don’t know how to do it .
my mistress lies here murdered in her bed .
yes, sir, mend you.
i’ll go and join my men .
it’s come twice before, and just appearing out of nothing, he’s gone past us at this dead hour with a warlike stalk.
have you heard about albany’s and cornwall’s troops ?
away, then!
who wants to speak with me?
his daughter and i will be king and queen—god protect us ! —and you and trinculo will be our governors . —do you like that idea ,  trinculo ?
let me see; i’ll look over the inscriptions again.
that’s how sound a man you appeared .
it will heal and be as good as new ,  and we’ll be threatened by its fangs once again .
speak briefly, can you like paris' love?
i’ll have to ask you some questions ,  madam .
i was afraid he was only trifling with you and meant to wreck you ,  but curse my jealousy !
and can’t you, by any circumstance, get from him why he puts on this craziness, grating all his days of quiet so harshly with turbulence and dangerous lunacy?
but antonio is certainly bankrupt .
the house will be so much quieter .
i’m afraid his mother may have had an affair with a blacksmith .
well ,  then ,  what are you messing up ?
many of antonio's creditors came with me to venice, swearing he can only go broke.
i don’t have a talent for putting my heart’s feelings into words .
is this the nature that passion could not shake?
she swoons to see them bleed.
nothing, but that this is so.
i told him what i thought .
some should go to the public platforms and cry out ,   “ liberty ,  freedom ,  and democracy !  ”  people and senators ,  don’t be afraid .
from under the earth .
tody of them so i can do what’s best out of concern for their honor and the safety of the kingdom .
swear your love for each other .
o weary calculations !
sings .
oh cassius ,  i’m tired out by many sorrows .
and find a poverty stricken gentleman who i can marry straightaway to clarence’s daughter .
she’s insistent .
my name is thidias .
are you playing tricks on me by showing me savages and uncivilized men from the indies ,  ha ?
and a true lover of the holy church .
how did my master die, strato?
the sun was not as true to the daytime as he was to me.
i love to argue with him when he’s having one of these fits ,  because then he always has a lot to say .
come on !
please, spare me.
are there scales here to weigh the flesh ?
no ,  their work keeps them at their usual pace ,  but there is ,  sir ,  a brood of children ,  untrained ,  that complicate their situation ,  and are most tyrannically beaten for it .
because it is very easy to involve the listening desdemona in any honest pursuit.
but come, young waverer, come go with me.
the moor replies that the man you hurt is very famous in cyprus and has a great reputation ,  and that ,  in pure wisdom ,  he might not refuse you ,  but he protests he loves you and needs no other person begging than his own opinion to take the safest public occasion to bring you back again .
i am too good to be in love with someone so low !
he insists he’ll speak with you whether you want him to or not .
claudio deserves to be honored ,  and don pedro has rewarded him accordingly .
my brother shall know of it .
has it been a quiet night ?
i admit two sleeves .
i’m sure he had more hair on his tail than i have on my face when i last saw him .
where should we eat?
you saw my master wink and laugh at you ?
they sing when they die .
yes ,  i guarantee he won’t drown—even if this ship were as fragile as an eggshell and as leaky as a menstruating woman .
now i have to go find some dewdrops and hang a pearl earring on every cowslip flower .
goodbye .
the lady protests too much ,  i think .
they probably put him up to killing old man gloucester to get his money .
why do you say that ?
the rest of the king’s guests are already inside .
welcome from mantua .
listen!
macbeth!
eat and sleep .
i love him even when he’s harsh and mean—help me unpin this ,  would you ? —i love even his stubbornness ,  his frowns ,  his bad moods .
the storm has begun and everything is at stake .
my heart feels like it’s full of poisonous snakes !
here comes my man.
some of you go to decius’s house and some to casca’s .
along the way ,  i’ll find an opportunity to separate him from the queen’s proud relatives ,  as step one in the plan we’ve discussed .
no, their work keeps them at their usual pace, but there is, sir, a brood of children, untrained, that complicate their situation, and are most tyrannically beaten for it.
he is very changed.
you may do it off the top of your head ,  because it’s nothing but roaring .
yes ,  with cassio .
what, do you look pale?
brave iago ,  how honest and trustworthy you are !
come, one for me.
what ,  have you lost your wits ?
and my heart too .
i kiss his dirty shoe ,  and from the bottom of my heart i love the lovely boy .
have you found my daughter?
i saw her buried in her family’s tomb ,  and then i came here to tell you the news .
there's the respect that makes a mess of long life ,  for who would bear the whips and scorns of time ,  the oppressor's wrong ,  the proud man's insults ,  the pangs of rejected love ,  the law's delay ,  the inexperience of office ,  and the disdain that patient merit takes from the unworthy ,  when he himself might his final settlement make with a bare ,  sharp knife ?
one .
your juliet is alive .
armed ,  sir .
but since this has happened ,  you should fix it for your own good .
reading their mail isn’t as bad .
but why ,  villain ,  did you kill my cousin ?
oh ,  what evil !
i’m not myself .
i cannot move .
we’ve all come out to see what will happen . —go ,  hercules !
very bad luck!
would you tie me to a whole world of worries ?
listen ,  will you walk with me around the town and then dine with me at the inn ?
i hope this play is well cast now .
oh, father abraham, what are these christians, whose own hard dealings teach them to suspect the thoughts of others.
i remember.
i regret all the boring time i wasted with her .
my heart is very light in my chest ,  and all this day an unusually happy spirit lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts .
the little song reminds me of my drowned father.
have some others search .
girls who marry so young grow up too soon .
i don’t know either .
ok, guys, spread out.
and these she interprets for warnings and portents and imminent evil, and on her knee, has begged me to stay home today.
we'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with him.
you don’t look well ,  antonio .
it’s a nice hand ,  an open one .
i will work it out, and everything will be fine, i guarantee you, wife.
he doesn’t have to care .
my excellent good friends!
i’m not busy now, nervous daughter.
let’s pray that we never come into conflict like that again .
whatever you are, for your good warning, thanks; you have helped my fear with your music.
caesar's better parts shall be crowned in brutus.
but in that  “ no hope ”  there are great hopes for you !
take up the body .
to a convent ,  go ,  and quickly too .
you’re snoring ,  but it sounds like you’re talking .
by our lady ,  i think that’s true .
where else should they be set ?
it is not so now.
now listen and understand.
who shall prevent you from it?
ha !
who measured the ground ?
you will ,  my lord .
what says that fool of hagar's offspring ,  huh ?
let heaven be my witness—i’m putting my mind ,  my heart ,  and my hands in othello’s control .
i can suck sadness out of a song the way a weasel sucks eggs .
don’t think it’s good to tell him ,  for who except a queen ,  fair ,  sober ,  wise ,  would hide from a frog ,  from a bat ,  a cat ,  such dear concerns ?
now ,  by the stock and honor of my kin ,  i don’t think it’s a sin to strike him dead .
my lord ,  the king your father .
i'll have the embroidery taken out ,  and give it iago .
what do you want to tell me?
i beg you ,  turn away and cry for her .
he doesn’t miss much.
i’ll go alone .
a most nasty monster !
thank you .
i was told that by one who knows him better than you .
look lively ,  look lively ,  my good men !
here ,  sir !  ”  you stupid ,  unpolished dolts !
we'll hear him ,  we'll follow him ,  we'll die with him .
if i had a plantation of this island ,  my lord , — listen ,  plant it with plants that sting .
his speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired, but all disordered.
here ,  take my sword .
romeo, throw your name away; and for that name, which isn’t part of you, take all of me.
he was so slick in covering over his plans that if it hadn’t been for his love affair with shore’s wife ,  i would never have suspected him .
get up ,  man !
no we’re not—it’s night .
i’m sorry ,  malvolio ,  but this isn’t my writing ,  though i admit it looks like mine .
i knew you’d turn out this way .
so that’s how it is now ,  arguing with choppy reasoning ?
thanks for that .
no ,  please ,  let it serve for dinner conversation; then ,  no matter what you say ,  i shall digest it with the other things i’m eating up .
no, no!
but this is bad !
portia, are you gone?
madam !
that will be before sunset.
she is too fair, too wise; wisely too fair, to earn her own happiness by making me despair.
here ,  where i point my sword ,  the sun rises ,  which is going a great way to the south ,  bringing in spring .
well ,  it’s a fault i wouldn’t trade for your best virtue .
also against nature.
go to my room and put on something of mine .
boy ,  this walking away shall not excuse the injuries that you have done to me; therefore ,  turn and draw your sword .
this is good .
then must the jew be merciful.
let me see this face.
o curses on marriage ,  that we can call these delicate creatures ours ,  and not control their appetites !
but do you think that’s what he’s aiming for ?
he fell down in the market place, foamed at the mouth, and was speechless.
for shame, bring juliet out; her lord is here.
where is my father?
i will confess to you that i love him.
if you’d like to talk tomorrow ,  i’ll come to your home .
sa ,  sa ,  sa ,  sa .
are your doors locked?
i think he will carry this island home in his pocket, and give it his son as an apple.
what’s the matter ?
i frown at him ,  but he still loves me .
i hope he is ,  but mothers get to have their doubts .
cleopatra recognizes your greatness and accepts your authority .
come on ,  iago .
he looked very thin ,  as if sharp misery had worn him down to the bones; and in his poor shop a turtle was hanging ,  and a stuffed alligator ,  and other skins of ill - shaped fishes ,  and on his shelves he had a poverty - stricken collection of empty boxes ,  and green earthen pots ,  animal bladders ,  and musty smelling seeds ,  remnants of leftover twine ,  and old cakes of roses ,  were thinly scattered around ,  to make up a display .
i can only say that you are due more than all of us can ever pay.
then ,  i’ll attack you with my wit !
hey !
most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
dido was from carthage ,  not tunis .
no, monster, not me.
i found him here ,   beating ?
i’m ashamed that i gave in to them .
and don’t be proud .
yes.
if he awakens ,  he'll fill our skins with pinches from toe to head; turn us into strange stuff .
i think he only loves life because of bassanio .
what a wonderful time to be alive !
come ,  i’ll place you among the sisterhood of holy nuns .
how should i know your true love from another one?
will you know the truth about it ?
why should i be afraid of you?
what are you doing ?
what do you want with me ?
fit the action to the word, the word to the action, with this special rule, that you don’t overstep the simplicity of being natural, for anything so overdone is not the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as it were, the mirror up to nature, to show truth in reality, scorn her falseness, and his form and force to the very age and body of the time.
or just a foretaste of it ?
pardon me but i do not know what is  “ like me .  ”  an angel is like you ,  kate ,  and you are like an angel .
go to the tomb of your great - grandfather ,  from whom your own title to the crown derives .
then hurry up and rush over to friar lawrence’s cell .
i mean knock his brains out ,  so he can’t take othello’s place .
all right ,  my lord . —how’s the king doing ?
i’ve proved my trustworthiness by giving myself a voluntary wound here in my thigh .
and stand indebted, over and above, in love and service to you forever.
o ,  break ,  my heart !
a great disturbance in nature ,  to receive at once the benefit of sleep ,  and do things as if awake .
they’re good enough to drink in ,  and so are these boots .
but now ,  i tell you—keep it to yourself ,  though—those enemies of mine are being put to death today ,  and i’m better than i’ve ever been .
take this .
piece of cheese will get him . —i challenge you to a match .
let’s dance to  “ you jerk .  ”  you mean ,   “ shut up ,  you jerk ”  ?
no, cousin, i'm going to fife.
but you ,  my noble lords ,  may name a time ,  and i’ll second it on the duke’s behalf ,  which i don’t think he’ll mind .
until then ,  i have to remain calm .
you lie there .
away ,  away ,  be gone !
now, what's the latest?
no ,  don’t throw any of it away .
farewell ,  sir .
my mother is waiting.
what a backward world we live in !
will you come with me ?
better late than never—and it’s never too late to change .
you’re perfect ,  without a rival in the world ,  made up of the best qualities of every creature .
friend ,  look to it .
on him, on him!
did the brothers - in - law leave ?
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
and i am sick when i don’t look at you.
and i will give you another one.
the bridegroom is already here .
if every dollar in six thousand dollars were in six parts ,  and every part a dollar ,  i would not take them; i want my promise to pay .
god knows i have done my best to argue for you ,  and made him angry at me for being so aggressive .
find him, titinius, while i go ahead to meet the noble brutus, thrusting this report into his ears.
look behind you ,  my lord .
don’t worry about the cost.
tell me ,  you unknown power— he can read your thoughts .
the king made peace among all of us .
and lovers' absent hours being more tedious than the clock one hundred sixty times?
who’s there ?
the ears that should give us hearing can’t hear ,  to tell him his order is obeyed ,  that rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead .
my beautiful rosalind ,  i’m only an hour late .
if she is black and also has a wit, she'll find a white that will her blackness fit.
aren’t i your rosalind ?
not ever heard, or ever suspected.
ay ,  in the temple ,  in the town ,  the field ,  you do something to me .
what work can you do ?
yes ,  that’s the one .
why ,  the honest men .
even my tears burn me like molten lead .
well ,  then ,  that’s how it is .
well ,  maybe he’ll do her some good .
your grace shall have it .
you’d better not make that suggestion ,  agrippa .
i have bankrupted three tailors .
well ,  i cannot tell how my difficult life has weathered my face ,  but i will never let those difficulties subdue my courage .
cassius ,  stand firm .
casca ,  you’ll be the first to raise your hand .
where will we meet in the morning ?
investigate how this foul murder came about .
cassio ,  how did you get my wife’s handkerchief ?
in faith ,  we may put up our pipes and go home .
will you cry ?
the queen will be treated fairly if she gives me up ?
god forbid that i should interrupt religion !
very bad.
you’ve got a sword ,  gloucester .
here is his majesty .
and joy is welcomed in such a needy time .
mercutio ,  you hang out with romeo .
i like your joke ,  i swear .
when they choose, they have the wisdom to lose by their senses.
the queen, my lord, is dead.
grab down benches.
i’m waiting here for the general, and i don’t think it would help, and it’s not my wish, to have him see me talking with a woman.
so you are obliged to revenge ,  when you shall hear me .
then certain ones .
then i guess the whole world is one .
it is now high dinner time, and the night is being wasted.
does that mean he’s lazy ?
watch him carefully, because i will have my eyes riveted on his face, and, after the play, we will combine our observations in condemning of his actions.
do i only live outside of your good pleasure ?
don’t scold; i have something for you.
you mean the man who used to be othello ?
you’ve offered an excellent interpretation .
i’m a surgeon to old shoes .
and you have mercy too!
me neither ,  my lord .
but one word more— he will not be commanded by you .
there are no old gentlemen but gardeners ,  ditchers ,  and grave - makers .
we’ll have a couch made up that’s softer and more fragrant even than the bed of lustful
no, if i had power, i should pour the sweet milk of concord into hell, disturb the universal peace, confuse all unity on earth.
you are a tame man; go!
oh ,  oh ,  edmund ,  i don’t like this monstrous business .
are you insane ,  talking like this ?
do you hear me, cassio?
the moon sets at twelve ,  right ?
craziness in great ones must not go unwatched.
if you dressed only to stay warm ,  you wouldn’t need these gorgeous clothes you’re wearing—which don’t keep you warm at all .
you flea ,  you louse ,  you winter cricket !
is there more work to do ?
let me tell you ,  the man who marries her will become very wealthy .
since my dear soul controlled her choice ,  and could recognize men of truth ,  her choice has taken you for herself .
uncomfortable time, why do you come now to murder, murder our solemnity?
my brother ,  your uncle antonio—just listen to this (i still can’t believe a brother could be so disloyal !
i’m not moving an inch ,  pal .
on the platform, between eleven and twelve, i’ll visit you.
look, my lord, it comes!
maybe he won’t see me .
he who will not follow me now ,  let him depart and stand in the doorway like a pimp ,  cap in hand ,  while some slave ,  no nobler than my dog ,  violates his daughter .
what ,  will you wash him from his grave with tears ?
quiet!
don’t you know me still ?
obey your parents ,  keep your word ,  don’t swear ,  don’t sleep with another man’s wife ,  and don’t covet flashy clothes .
no ,  keep going ,  old man; don’t stop like that .
aren’t i hermia?
o ,  now you weep and i can see that you feel the blow of pity .
i’m not stephano ,  i’m a walking cramp .
they see ,  smell ,  and taste sweet and sour just like their husbands .
what do you think of marching to philippi now ?
are you some god ,  some angel ,  or some devil ,  that makes my blood cold and my hair to stand on end ?
neither rhyme nor reason can express how much i love her .
you’d better understand that i won’t wait till i’m chained up in your master’s court ,  and i won’t let myself be scolded even once by dull octavia .
okay ,  to the point .
what satisfaction could you possibly have tonight ?
you are everywhere ?
good hay ,  sweet hay ,  has no equal .
i'll come to you in a minute .
he is ready at the door; he comes, my lord.
do you remember anyone who died of it ?
no one but his enemies .
a good wench; give it to me .
they’re never jealous for a reason; they’re just jealous .
for the love of god ,  help us !
have you never heard the saying, two may keep counsel, putting the other one away?
why?
you’ve done what you should be sorry for .
what’s going on ,  dromio ?
yes, the heads of maids, or their virginity.
put this poison into any liquid you want, and drink it all; and, if you had the strength of twenty men, it would kill you right away.
tell me ,  is your tardy master close at hand ?
i now give my opinion: hold it no longer; this is no fish ,  but an islander ,  that has lately been struck by lightning .
only one word with one of us ?
listen!
here comes a messenger .
oh ,  sweetheart ,  take what i said in an innocent sense .
go take care of him .
and are you changed ?
hurry up ,  make haste ,  for it grows very late .
this bodiless creation is very cunning in imagination .
behold ,  over there ,  and titinius’ mourning it .
it’s good we had this meeting .
a serious calling lies on me like lead ,  and still i couldn't sleep .
you and your meaner fellows performed your last jobs very well, and i must use you in another similar trick.
welcome to cyprus .
that  “ may be ”  must be ,  love ,  on next thursday .
and, if your wife is not a madwoman, and knows how much i have deserved this ring, she would not hold out in being your enemy forever for giving it to me.
and now ,  laertes ,  what's the news with you ?
if, after every storm such calms come, may the winds blow until they have awakened death!
my life on her faith in me !
love doesn’t look with the eyes, but with the mind; and that’s why cupid is painted with a blindfold.
and he and i will watch you wake up ,  and that very night romeo take you there ,  to mantua .
and what will happen if i don’t ?
hear the shrill whistle that brings order to the hubbub .
i’ll meet all your attacks ,  even if you come charging at me with a lance at full gallop .
good night ,  ladies ,  good night ,  sweet ladies ,  good night ,  good night .
what did northumberland say about richmond ?
you may hear about it soon .
god bless my old master .
i’ll do any decent thing ,  my lord ,  to help my cousin get a good husband .
my noble king ,  my friends have informed me that sir edward courtney and his brother ,  the haughty bishop of exeter ,  are now in  my king ,  the guildfords in  my lord ,  the duke of buckingham’s army— enough ,  you
do you like this speed ?
that’s me you’re talking about ,  the playful wanderer of the night .
that’s enough for one lesson .
good night to everyone .
stand away from the hearse .
these are a man’s words ,  and his handwriting .
what !
me marry her !
i’m sorry to find you like this .
if you must damn yourself, do it a more delicate way than drowning.
get some light !
my lord ,  this bill that’s being proposed is the same one that was proposed in the eleventh year of old king henry’s reign .
heaven is here ,  where juliet lives ,  and every cat ,  and dog ,  and little mouse ,  every unworthy thing ,  live here in heaven ,  and may look on her; but romeo may not .
right away ,  good nurse !
what’s going on?
a sense of security opens the door to conspiracy .
a piece of work that will make sick men well again .
that's very true, my lord.
o my love !
all men say you are changeable .
true; except the means to live it.
heaven help him !
he lives, sir.
and this is what you told me he said: that he beat you and pretended his house wasn’t his and i wasn’t his wife .
what is your wish with regard to her ?
for your sake ,  jewel ,  i am glad at soul i have no other child ,  because your escape would teach me tyranny ,  to hang logs on them .
you should have reprimanded him for that .
i beg you to let me speak with you, o, my good lord!
behold !
i must act my dreadful scene alone.
what?
my god ,  this is unbelievably strange .
no ,  i found it and gave it to my husband .
if any ships are sailing ,  i’ll get right on one .
good - bye .
this is the roof under which lorenzo said to meet him .
the air bites sharply, it is very cold.
let merriman catch his breath—the poor dog’s foaming at the mouth .
how are you ,  my golden girl ?
don’t stand there in shock .
no; he only totally misses the truth .
when marcus brutus grows so greedy as to engage his friend in such battles, be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts, cut him into pieces!
she sent dromio to bring you home for lunch .
but, as i said, in the middle of july, she’ll be fourteen; that she will, by mary; i remember it well.
hear everyone’s opinion ,  but reserve your judgment .
look out for him in the corner of the orchard as if you were a sheriff’s deputy .
be silent .
get out of here ,  my friend .
is my ink and paper ready ?
joy and fresh days of love accompany your hearts !
that if you be sincere and truthful, your sincerity shouldn’t have any talks to your beauty.
let me tell you ,  my friend ,  i’m almost insane myself .
to invite my former boss ,  the jew ,  to dine tonight with my new master ,  the christian .
when you find out who started this disagreement ,  turn your anger upon them .
just the same ,  i'll hide close by .
our duty to your honor .
he’ll never agree to that .
and i his clerk; so be well advised how you leave me to my own protection.
what time is it?
say it for me ,  sir ,  to all our friends ,  for my heart says they are welcome .
if i agree to this ,  we may leave unharmed ,  with our shields undented .
for god’s sake ,  send somebody else .
he’s coming ,  madam; but he’s acting very strangely .
calphurnia ,  my wife ,  is keeping me at home .
he fell down in the marketplace and foamed at the mouth and was speechless .
if the common people didn’t applaud him and hiss at him, since he pleased and displeased them, as they used to do to the actors in the theatre, then i’m not really a man.
i wonder if the lion is going to speak.
yes ,  lady ,  that’s what i said .
i wish you were happy to stay and hear his true confession.
i’m afraid it will  i’d love it .
i will do it ,  my lord .
and i’m her father as well .
oh ,  will it never be day ?
why should i be afraid of your judgment when i haven’t done anything wrong ?
you don’t understand me .
i remember kissing her washing stick and the cow’s udders that her pretty ,  chapped hands had milked .
i’ll bite my thumb at them .
i’ll hide in the arbor .
listen !
but what’s your trade?
you are welcome here ,  as are all of you english princes .
they’re all welcome . — what worries are keeping you from sleeping ?
did you see anything ?
you’ll get revenge later .
stop—if you can’t be kind ,  at least have some shame .
i’m not scared of you .
why then ,  he was god's soldier !
i beg you all, if you have kept this sight secret so far, keep your silence still, and whatever else shall happen tonight, take it in, but don’t talk about it.
and so near will i be, that your best friends shall wish i had been further away.
do these eyes move?
get it ready immediately .
and like i am for ganymede .
why, what if they are vile and false, where's that palace that foul things sometimes intrude?
be merciful ,  say death; for exile has more terror in his look ,  much more than death; do not say banishment .
it’s someone with a torch !
you know my daughter's at a pretty age .
no, by my life and soul!
he once said the devil would get him because of women .
if i could say hello to the fifth one as happily as i’ll say goodbye to the first four ,  i’d be very happy he’s coming .
and  i feel that i love her .
i dare not drink yet, madam, by and by.
it is my duty, sir.
there wasn’t a soul that only felt a fever of the madness and played some tricks out of desperation.
i beg you ,  see there !
the king is insane .
get away from me ,  you ass !
all that i will tell you is, that the duke has dined.
what an annoying man ,  this guy is !
well ,  my good fellows ,  wait on me tonight .
for no man ,  sir .
when you free your children from the sword ,  your grandchildren will repay you in your old age .
sweet remembrancer !
i’m not bringing any declarations of war or demands for cash .
he's now in florence.
does he reward my dedicated service with such deep contempt ?
you may doubt you that the stars are fire ,   ” you may doubt that the sun does move ,   ” you may doubt truth to be a liar ,   ” but never doubt i love .
i know his soul’s in heaven ,  fool .
what !
so ,  we'll have some half a dozen friends ,  and that’ll be it .
if she had been blessed ,  she would never have loved the moor .
damn her !
here, peter quince.
so i will ,  my liege .
now all the blessings of a glad father are all around you!
so long ?
tongue nor heart cannot comprehend or name you !
i’m glad that my weak words have brought out this show of fire from brutus .
lorenzo and his infidel?
well ,  my good lord .
you have amazed me .
who put out the light?
stop right now !
help me ,  angels !
you find yourself a bed, and i will rest my head upon this bank.
i’m being repaid for that now .
who can move the forest ,  bid the tree to walk away from his earth - bound root ?
i’ll straighten it ,  then play— where’s the queen ?
if someone else kills you, he will be cursed.
we will go to the best marriage - bed ,  which shall be blessed by us; and the children created there shall forever be lucky and prosperous .
or why you interrupt our journey on this blasted heath with such prophetic greeting?
why do they run away ?
o grace!
if i was, then i shouldn’t ask casca what had happened.
i will chop her into pieces .
if you did ,  i don’t care .
o ,  be some other name !
he fights as you sing prick-song keeps time, distance, and proportion; rests his minimum rest.
what time is it?
cassio’s been wounded .
not when i saw it .
the messenger arrived on my watch and is unloading his mules at your tent .
you lie.
renounce it, sight!
but if it’s not double - dealing ,  sir ,  i wish you’d deal me another .
what a horrible world we live in !
well ,  sir ,  go inside .
come here !
it is a sin to heaven ,  a sin against the dead ,  a sin to nature ,  most ridiculous to reason ,  whose common theme is death of fathers ,  and who still has cried ,  from the first corpse to the man who died just today ,   ” this must be so .  ”  we beg you ,  give up on this unusual grief ,  and think of us as of a father .
the marshal of france ,  monsieur la far .
o phoebe ,  phoebe ,  phoebe !
that’s nothing to worry about; you shall play it with a mask on, and you can make your voice as light as you want.
why ?
have you ever heard of anything like that ,  roderigo ?
she had a premonition of what has actually happened .
i beg you, continue.
let me ask you something in private .
you haven’t been conquered .
then no man has ever been honest .
you are welcome here ,  my friends .
o gentle romeo ,  if you do love ,  pronounce it faithfully .
there never was a monarch better feared and loved than yourself ,  your majesty .
a trumpet within .
alright ,  let’s fight ,  boy !
if anyone doubts this ,  let him put me on trial .
angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
i’m not dead ?
only be patient until we have pacified the multitude ,  who are beside themselves with fear ,  and then we will tell you the reason why i ,  that loved caesar when i struck him ,  have acted this way .
the kind that tells you that the moor is having sex with your daughter right now .
well, that’s how i will grow, live, and die, my lord, before i will give up my virginity to his lordship.
my name, dear saint, is hateful to me because it is an enemy to you.
she did compliment me on my yellow stockings recently ,  and she said she liked how the crisscross laces looked on my legs .
where are you going ?
lady, amen.
let fortune and victory be yours !
see whether they’ll really do what you suggested; their guilt made them vanish in silence .
you can stand in his place .
i think it is like a weasel .
even if i went to church and saw the holy building of stone ,  i’d be thinking right away about dangerous rocks ,  which ,  touching only my gentle vessel's side ,  would scatter all her spices across the water ,  spreading my silk cargo across the roaring waters ,  and ,  in a word ,  one minute worth this amount of money ,  and now worth nothing .
your mother .
the ropes that romeo asked you to fetch ?
don’t follow me .
you’ve never seen anything like it .
no one ever gave a prayer like that before going to sleep .
i thank you, madam; give welcome to my friend: this is the man, this is antonio, to whom i am so infinitely indebted.
your worst fault is being in love .
let me just ask her one question ,  and by your authority as her father ,  order her to answer truthfully .
read it ,  great caesar .
i have to admit that when i saw his suicide during rehearsal ,  i had tears in my eyes—but they were tears of laughter .
toward his own father who loves him so completely .
so let’s join forces and get revenge .
i mean please go into the house ,  sir .
wretched boy ,  you hung out with him here ,  and you’re going to go to heaven with him .
if you stick us ,  don’t we bleed ?
which one is it ?
there's no offense, my lord.
what news ?
he had a thousand noses and twisted horns ,  like wave crests in a storm at sea .
good luck ,  sir .
i have had it ,  and soundly too .
sneaky ,  dried - up old coot !
let him hoist you up in front of the shouting crowds !
i am bound by oath ,  so please forgive me .
sirs ,  i ask you to sleep in my tent .
you see that any morals she has left are preventing her from denying the charges: she doesn’t want to add perjury to her list of sins .
the second i saw you ,  my heart rushed to serve you and be your slave ,  so here i am now ,  a patient log - man .
no ,  a whole share for me .
i was engaged to her ,  my lord ,  before i saw hermia .
then you live about her waist ,  or in the middle of her favors ?
let’s follow them to see how this turns out .
honey ,  cyprus will be very glad to see you; i have found great love among them .
oh ,  the heavens !
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
to dover .
i hate to say it ,  but it’s almost two and we won’t get there before suppertime .
come ,  katherine queen of all ,  reveal your heart to me in broken english .
she has spoken what she should not ,  i am sure of that .
come on, sir.
no doubt, he’s kidnapped.
i’m only trying to keep the peace.
i beg you, come in.
alas, how shall this bloody deed be explained?
come ,  mistress kate ,  i’ll join you .
what?
this is that very mab that braids the manes of horses in the night; and bakes tangled messes of hair into foul dirty hairs, which, once untangled, signals the beginning of much misfortune.
fighting life ,  fighting death ,  i come without delay .
prepare yourselves .
is your marriage here?
did i work to make him king for this ?
he keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw, first to be tasted, and then at last swallowed.
your tongue should be blistered for such a wish!
so is my horse ,  octavius ,  and for that reason i give him all the hay he wants .
it doesn’t seem right or suitable to my position to be a witness (which i will be if i stay) ,  against the moor .
call my knights together .
that’s not your fault !
caesar!
what’s the news among the merchants ?
well ,  brutus ,  you’re noble .
then put your pipes away in your bag, because i'm leaving.
but let me beg you, by the rights of our fellowship, by the harmony of our youth, by the obligation of our ever preserved love, and by anything else that could charge you to be even and direct with me, were you were sent for or not?
pretty !
ah ,  but there is ,  horatio ,  there’s a lot of offense .
are you his brother ?
sir, very carefully.
i do beg you, sir, trouble yourself no further.
may god keep you well ,  sir .
stand close together ,  in case someone loyal to caesar tries to— don’t talk about standing together . —publius ,  cheer up .
sovereign ,  here lies count paris slain ,  and romeo dead ,  and juliet ,  who was dead before ,  no warm and newly killed .
destruction take my soul, but i do love you!
they are in a rage .
i swear ,  he’ll be food for the crows soon .
more legal authority ,  more honorable state ,  more courtship lives in flies on dead meat than romeo .
what is the matter ?
your death and destiny advise your followers to escape .
o, overcome them with zeal.
be content ,  gentle cousin ,  leave him alone .
or, rather, do i not, in plainest truth, tell you i do not and cannot love you?
i wish i were sleep and peace ,  so sweet to rest !
i’ll make myself invisible ,  and i eavesdrop on their conversation .
okay .
and so far i am glad it worked out this way ,  because i am really enjoying the show .
but don’t tell me; i know antonio is sad to think about his shipments .
what would you do about it ?
look ,  it’s the prince and mr .  love .
i swear to you ,  many members of your mustard family have made my eyes water before .
i said your husband .
let’s not stay here with them .
separate them.
softly ,  by and by .
but, i beg you, don’t let any of your people wake me up; i feel a deep sleep coming.
he’s welcome here.
it is my rival for bianca .
farewell.
when you ask for my blessing ,  i’ll get down on my knees and ask you to forgive me .
has anyone offended your worship ?
parting is such sweet sorrow that i’ll say good night until tonight becomes tomorrow .
just as hounds and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  mutts ,  shaggy lapdogs ,  swimming dogs ,  and wolf - dog crossbreeds are all dogs .
because, sir, it is as sure as you are roderigo, were i the moor, i would not be iago.
and strength shall gives us help .
i die an innocent death .
i know you’re my oldest brother ,  and deserve more respect .
it is good that you found me .
if we are like you in the rest ,  we’ll resemble you in that .
you did, and more, miranda.
there ,  leonato ,  take your daughter back .
madam ,  not now .
it is neither here nor there .
you have my best efforts to get everything done as you ask.
don’t i deserve more than this ?
goodbye .
didn’t a woman give birth to him?
proclaim no shame when the compulsive passion takes charge ,  since frost itself burns as well ,  and reason pimps the will .
would he have stolen away from sleeping hermia ?
where are you running so fast ?
macbeth .
then repeat this after me: you can’t expect women to be faithful when men are so unreliable .
o, banish me, my lord, but don’t kill me!
death ,  which has taken her away to make me cry ,  now ties up my tongue and won’t let me speak .
tears with seven times the salt, burn out the sight and truth of my eyes!
some heavenly power guide us out of this fearful country !
that’s enobarbus ?
hail ,  caesar !
sit down awhile ,  and let us tell you once again ,  you who is so stubborn in not believing our story ,  what we have seen these last two nights .
go softly on .
hello ,  ho ,  ho ,  my lord !
tie him up harder . —you filthy traitor !
o ,  horrible !
i don’t want to go out of doors, yet something leads me there.
why should you think that i should not court you seriously ?
we can’t wait here .
i went to many places where i heard news about her ,  but i couldn’t find her .
what's the matter ,  husband ?
what’s the play called ?
the time is of such a boring duration .
i’ll be more jealous of you than a wild rooster over his hen; more noisy than a parrot chattering about the rain; more fond of new things than an ape; more giddy about getting what i want than a monkey .
or tell me ,  my sweet love ,  what you’d like to eat .
do you have anything else to tell me ?
are you talking about young master launcelot ?
i make fun of you!
i’m sorry .
a fish: he smells like a fish: a very old and fish - like smell; a kind that’s not like the freshest small fish .
sheep pens are empty in the middle of the flooded fields ,  and the crows get fat from eating the dead bodies of infected sheep .
treason !
o mighty caesar!
kill him rather than let him leave this room .
the storm is coming up ,  and everything is at stake .
madam, i wish it may.
i am justly killed with my own wickedness.
anything .
i didn’t do anything .
good morning to you.—here the street is narrow.
who brought them ?
you would never fear being caught or dying ,  the mistakes nor the tricks .
come ,  come ,  you’re making fun of me .
here come the conspirators .
hero thinks beatrice will surely die ,  for she says she’ll die if he doesn’t love her ,  and that she’ll die before she tells him ,  and she’ll die if he woos her and she’s made to hold back even one of her usual insults .
what would i do besides good ?
what villains did this to you ?
sir ,  i’ll give you a whole history .
well ,  we’ll speak more soon .
why ,  because we’re always handling our ewes ,  and their fleece ,  as you know ,  is greasy .
will you be going to scone?
let’s go .
i thought the clouds were talking to me ,  the winds were singing to me ,  and the thunder ,  like an awful organ pipe ,  roared prospero’s name .
music ,  listen !
and what’s your connection with the traitors who landed in our kingdom recently ?
all the spirits hate him as much as i do .
i thank you ,  even for that: so ,  please ,  lead me to the chests so i may try my luck .
sweet lady ,  you have given me life and living ,  because here i read for certain that my ships have safely come home .
i had no sense of judgment when i swore love to her .
a hundred then .
give him the instructions for our amusing little contract ,  and i’ll go get the money for you right away .
do you look pale, mistress?
how else is it the man in the moon ?
madam, here comes my lord.
stay here; the generals want to talk.
with courtesy and with respect enough ,  only not with such familiar instances ,  or with such free and friendly conversation ,  as he used to in the old days .
yes ,  and you dared caesar to fight the battle at pharsalia ,  where he fought against pompey .
are you a man?
an unauthorized kiss.
this contract doesn’t give you any blood at all .
do so .
good god, soon we’ll remove the thing that makes us strangers!
from this moment the very first wishes of my heart shall be the firs actions of my hand .
all's well .
he taught me how to recognize a man in love ,  and you’re not a prisoner of love ,  i’m sure .
therefore ,  love and tongue - tied simplicity can say the most even when they’re saying the least ,  in my opinion .
caesar, beware of brutus; be careful of cassius; don’t come near casca; watch cinna; don’t trust trebonius; pay attention to metellus cimber; decius brutus doesn’t love you; you’ve sinned against caius ligarius.
i’ll go and chat with paris .
most constantly .
well ,  well .
and the grace of heaven, before you, behind you, and on every hand, surround you!
i won’t move to please anybody .
let’s call for help and get them tied up again !
oh ,  luciana ,  did he tempt you like that ?
hurry up ,  hurry up .
if you meet horatio and marcellus ,  the ones who will watch with me ,  tell them to hurry up .
how often, when men are at the point of death have they been happy?!
he will have only justice and his penalty .
is it so?
brutus "  and  " caesar .  ”  what is in that name ,   " caesar ?
she has royal blood .
now you are my lieutenant .
forty thousand brothers couldn’t ,  even with all their quantity of love ,  make up my sum .
go ahead .
i ,  sir ,  am dromio .
wasn’t it yesterday we spoke together ?
niece ,  you are exceptionally perceptive .
is it within reason and can be done?
by all the gods that romans bow before ,  i here discard my sickness .
did he charge interest ?
and now this man has become a god, and cassius is a wretched creature, and must bow, even if caesar only nods at him carelessly.
where is she ?
those guards that macbeth has slain .
the sun itself has never seen anyone as beautiful since the world began .
and you all know, security is the major enemy of humans.
the sooner, sweet, for you.
at different times)] listen, listen!
villain ,  you don’t know the laws of god or of man .
what time is it?
no ,  my good lord ,  but ,  as you did command ,  i did reject his letters and denied his access to me .
don’t you not remember ,  lady ,  in your father's time ,  a venetian ,  a scholar and a soldier ,  that came here in the company of the marquis of montserrat ?
if this deed were done when it is done ,  then it would be better if it were done quickly .
that skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once.
madam ,  an eagle does not have eyes as green ,  as quick ,  and as fair as the eyes of paris .
we told him we wouldn’t even let him bury his men until he retreated to saint colme’s inch and paid us ten thousand dollars .
how can these things in me seem like ridicule to you, when my tears prove them to be true?
who’s going to keep me from them ?
hey !
tell me about it quickly, so that i, with wings as swift as meditation or the thoughts of love, may rush to my revenge.
so take me to see them .
i have sent to bid cassio to come and speak with you.
this is your negligence.
in his greatest need ,  even they will desert him .
the noise is that way .
it’s bitter cold, and i’m depressed.
these kneelings and humble courtesies might excite ordinary men ,  flattering them into turning roman law into children’s games .
my friend ,  your husband ,  honest ,  honest iago .
how strangely ?
i wish you had won the fleece that he has lost.
what the traitor has lost ,  noble macbeth has won .
let’s go to the king .
but tell me ,  monsieur—what sport are the ladies missing ?
sir ,  can you tell where he is ?
i shall forget just to have you stand there ,  remembering how i love your company .
she will wither and come to a bad end .
sir ,  fifteen days of march have gone by .
i’ve already had a glass of wine tonight ,  watered down ,  but look how drunk i am .
off !
well, let’s get to our work.
did you see him ?
i beg your grace to pardon me .
can’t someone speak ?
i gave my love a ring, and made him swear never to part with it, and here he stands, i would dare to swear for him that he would not leave it nor pluck it from his finger for all the wealth in the world.
my lord, it shall is done.
if echo were as fast ,  he would be worth a dozen like belman .
o, the blood of my dear kinsman is spilled!
let him sink there so the sea will cover him !
this world doesn’t say yes ,  and it’s not strange at all that even our loves should change with our fortunes ,  because it’s a question we have to prove ,  when love leads fortune ,  or if fortune leads love .
you have my best efforts to get everything done as you ask .
is it possible ?
we give out the medicine for the sickly commonwealth ,  and with him we pour ,  into our country's purge ,  each drop of us .
lovers and madmen have such busy brains, such ability to shape fantasies, that they catch more than cool reason ever understands.
then he is dead?
no one should have an honor he doesn’t deserve .
now you have only the memory of what you were ,  which tortures you when you consider what you’ve become .
stand back .
sir ,  i can’t .
i just speak directly .
his virtue is not hidden .
i have made bold, iago, to send for your wife.
please ,  good bassanio ,  tell me; and if it is ,  honorable ,  as you yourself still are ,  be assured that my purse ,  my person ,  my utmost ability can be used for your benefit .
come ,  trusty sword .
good morning, father!
i’ll get it from you ,  i swear .
my spirit friend ,  harpier ,  is yelling ,   “ it’s time ,  it’s time !  ”  dance around the cauldron and throw in the poisoned entrails .
if i can hide my face ,  let me play thisbe too .
madam ,  your mother wants to talk to you .
i won’t .
you said the enemy wouldn’t come down but keep to the hills and upper regions .
dear duke ,  please listen to what i have to say .
i have no hope that he's not drowned.
i have to pretend to threaten you with my sword .
let me see; i’ll look over the inscriptions again .
if you who are so wise can’t help ,  please be kind enough to call my solution wise .
when he loses that ,  he’ll be drinking salt water ,  since i’ll never tell him where the freshwater springs are .
very clever !
i pray you ,  go after the lieutenant .
didn’t you hear her ,  guys ?
a little grief shows much love; but too much of grief shows a little craziness .
no ,  no ,  the bell .
it doesn’t look that way to me .
your spirits wildly peep from your eyes ,  and ,  as the sleeping soldiers at the alarm ,  your bedded hairs ,  like life in growths ,  start up and stand an end .
st .  george loses his holiness once  then ,  by myself— you’ve misused yourself .
come on ,  wake up ,  wake up ,  wake up !
get over it .
and where’s cordelia ? — do you see this ,  kent ?
what is fated to happen must happen .
come with me now ,  and help me out .
admired miranda!
i was a reasonable man ,  then i became a fool ,  and finally a beast !
hey ,  spirit !
hurry up ,  for fear my sword will be about your ears before you get yours out .
i wouldn’t have given it away for a whole jungle of monkeys .
sister ,  you know he promised to give me a necklace .
the weather is fair .
no, cassius, because the eye can only see itself in a mirror or by some other thing like it.
this must be known, which, if kept secret, might mean more trouble to hide it than hate for utter love.
i'm going to my pull - out bed; this field - bed is too cold for me to sleep in .
what’s going on ,  rosalind ?
is yours .  ”  and ,  though i say so in his presence ,  if he’s not a friend of the best kings ,  you’ll find him king of the best friends .
very well .
i think if we had fought ,  we would have proven too young and strong for them after all .
your honor’s is unhealthy talk .
what do you say, noble heart?
those friends you have ,  and their friendship tested ,  anchor them to your soul with hoops of steel ,  but don’t spend your money on entertaining each newly acquired ,  unproven friend .
look who’s coming .
this lodovico is a proper man.
my master’s decision .
o, balmy breath, that almost persuades justice to break her sword!
as you know ,  next sunday my daughter katherina is to be married .
his speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired ,  but all disordered .
speculation only tells about their unsure hopes; only a certain outcome must settle which direction the war will take.
never ,  my lord .
i wish she were in love with me instead .
her father and i, lawful spies, will so hide ourselves that, seeing but unseen, we may honestly judge their encounter, and gather from him, or how he behaves, if it’s the affliction of his love or not that he suffers like this for.
tell me .
find the girl !
younger than you, here in verona, ladies of esteem, are made already mothers.
is antonio here ?
so ,  bare your chest .
my darling othello !
let me comply with it in these clothes, for fear that my welcome to the players, which i tell you must look good, should more appear like entertainment than your plays.
go on .
an excellent courtesy !
you’re not as close to death as you think you are .
