twere as good a deed as to drink when a man’s a - hungry ,  to challenge him the field and then to break promise with him and make a fool of him .
i bade the rascal knock upon your gate and could not get him for my heart to do it .
a friend?
most detestable death ,  by thee beguiled ,  by cruel ,  cruel thee quite overthrown !
go to ,  say you nothing .
to pay five ducats, five, i would not farm it; nor will it yield to norway or the pole a ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
those being all my study ,  the government i cast upon my brother and to my state grew stranger ,  being transported and rapt in secret studies .
you do mistake me ,  sir .
why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
had i plantation of this isle ,  my lord— he’d sow ’t with nettle seed .
what a strange drowsiness possesses them !
if you would know your wronger ,  look on me .
little’ again !
if he will take it ,  so .
i remember him well; and i remember him worthy of thy praise .
there's more depends on this than on the value.
signior hortensio ,  come you to part the fray ?
nay ,  faith ,  let me not play a woman .
ay, and this.
what ,  nurse ,  i say !
all my pretty ones ?
alack the day!
god forgive us our sins!
had i as many sons as i have hairs ,  i would not wish them to a fairer death .
indeed ,  it is a strange - disposed time; but men may construe things after their fashion ,  clean from the purpose of the things themselves .
excellent well !
well, then i shall see thee again?
o ,  from this time forth ,  my thoughts be bloody ,  or be nothing worth !
he doth ,  for he did bid antonius send word to you he would be there tomorrow .
peace !
what say you?
he may recover yet .
why ,  there was a crown offered him; and ,  being offered him ,  he put it by with the back of his hand ,  thus; and then the people fell a - shouting .
not i; unless the breath of heartsick groans, mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.
to antonio] for you, most wicked sir, whom to call [to antonio] for you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother would even infect my mouth, i do forgive thy rankest fault, all of them, and require my dukedom of thee, which perforce i know thou must restore.
abhorrèd slave, which any print of goodness wilt not take, being capable of all ill!
it cannot be.
thou liest .
what news more ?
alas ,  iago ,  my lord hath so bewhored her ,  thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her ,  as true hearts cannot bear .
how if, when i am laid into the tomb, i wake before the time that romeo come to redeem me?
what if her eyes were there ,  they in her head ?
that death’s unnatural that kills for loving .
is not this buckled well ?
revenges burn in them, for their dear causes would to the bleeding and the grim alarm excite the mortified man.
where had he wine ?
this is some minx's token, and i must take out the work?
hereafter ,  in a better world than this ,  i shall desire more love and knowledge of you .
what harmony is this ?
you are a counsellor; if you can command these elements to silence, and work the peace of the present, we will not hand a rope more; use your authority.
but i have cause to pry into this pedant .
most noble antony !
by th' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer an unknown opposite .
how came he dead ?
if we are marked to die ,  we are enough to do our country loss; and if to live ,  the fewer men ,  the greater share of honor .
what are his words ?
lysander riddles very prettily .
how should i your true love know from another one ?
you shall not go.
speak ,  my fair ,  and fairly ,  i pray thee .
did heaven look on, and would not take their part?
horrible steep .
as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast !
eternity was in our lips and eyes ,  bliss in our brows’ bent ,  none our parts so poor but was a race of heaven .
but on thy side i may not be too forward ,  lest ,  being seen ,  thy brother ,  tender george ,  be executed in his father’s sight .
alas, then she is drown'd?
and this way have you well expounded it .
i think nothing ,  my lord .
this would drink deep .
i am sorry that your leisure serves you not.
as he was valiant ,  i honor him .
sweet portia ,  if you did know to whom i gave the ring ,  if you did know for whom i gave the ring ,  and would conceive for what i gave the ring ,  and how unwillingly i left the ring ,  when nought would be accepted but the ring ,  you would abate the strength of your displeasure .
o any thing ,  of nothing first create !
he cannot be such a monster— nor is not ,  sure .
look, he stirs: do you withdraw yourself a little while, he will recover straight.
wherefore ,  sweetheart ?
fair ladies ,  you drop manna in the way of starvèd people .
laugh to scorn the power of man ,  for none of woman born shall harm macbeth .
stay ,  you imperfect speakers ,  tell me more .
my mind hath been as big as one of yours ,  my heart as great ,  my reason haply more ,  to bandy word for word and frown for frown .
the enemy comes on in gallant show; their bloody sign of battle is hung out, and something to be done immediately.
o, i have lost my reputation!
dispersedly] bow - wow !
are you not good ?
whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself and you of her, the bloody book of law you shall yourself read in the bitter letter after your own sense.
here is the man .
our day is gone; clouds ,  dews ,  and dangers come; our deeds are done !
pray you, keep seat.
why ,  this' a heavy chance ’twixt him and you ,  your ancient ,  trusty ,  pleasant servant grumio .
my creditors grow cruel .
cousin hamlet ,  you know the wager ?
and a chain ,  that you once wore ,  about his neck .
come to me again, and bring me word what he doth say to thee.
i know him to be valiant .
this sight would make him do a desperate turn ,  yea ,  curse his better angel from his side and fall to reprobation .
i have done nothing but in care of thee, of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who art ignorant of what thou art, naught knowing of whence i am, nor that i am more better than prospero, master of a full poor cell, and thy no greater father.
why then ,  god’s soldier be he !
but what’s the matter ,  clarence ?
ha ,  let me see .
true ,  my good boy . —come ,  bring us to this hovel .
i am the son of marcus cato ,  ho !
sir, 'tis your brother cassius at the door, who doth desire to see you.
out, and alas!
there’s more depends on this than on the value .
what, man?
such comfort as do lusty young men feel when well - apparell'd april on the heel of limping winter treads ,  even such delight among fresh female buds shall you this night inherit at my house .
perhaps you have learned it without book .
sit down; for thou must now know farther.
therefore depart and leave him here with me .
i do entreat you ,  not a man depart ,  save i alone ,  till antony have spoke .
lord!
hast thou not a word of joy ?
a lover is more condoling .
that is enough to satisfy the senate .
the mousetrap .
the rabble call him lord; and ,  as the world were now but to begin ,  antiquity forgot ,  custom not known— the ratifiers and props of every word— they cry 'choose we !
i cannot think my sister in the least would fail her obligation .
i have begun to plant thee ,  and will labor to make thee full of growing .
wife ,  we scarce thought us blest that god had lent us but this only child; but now i see this one is one too much ,  and that we have a curse in having her .
my good lord .
you rub the sore when you should bring the plaster .
i am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter and the moor are now making the beast with two backs.
farewell ,  my desdemona .
we shall know by this fellow.
didst thou not kill this king ?
we cannot fight for love as men may do .
antonio is a good man .
he and lepidus are at caesar's house.
dies] [dies] moonshine and lion are left to bury the dead .
these times of woe afford no time to woo .
holla!
hold ,  then .
i gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift.
no ,  i assure you; the wall is down that parted their fathers .
tis just, and it is very much lamented, brutus, that you have no such mirrors as will turn your hidden worthiness into your eye that you might see your shadow.
a flatterer's would not, though they do appear as huge as high olympus.
she that makes dainty, she, i'll swear, hath corns.
my lord ,  my lord— i will not hear you .
why doth it not then our eyelids sink?
love ,  and be friends ,  as two such men should be; for i have seen more years ,  i'm sure ,  than ye .
exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere—i can- not tell how.
why, he drinks you with facility your dane dead drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your almain; he gives your hollander a vomit ere the next pottle can be filled.
by my troth ,  nerissa ,  my little body is a - weary of this great world .
that was my lady's voice .
o me!
stand ,  ho !
mine ,  sir .
why ,  there ,  there ,  there ,  there !
thy woes will make them sharp and pierce like mine .
by this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant, monster, or my standard.
how if they will not ?
tis evermore the prologue to his sleep; he'll watch the horologe a double set ,  if drink rock not his cradle .
then you’ll buy 'em to sell again .
content ,  in faith .
yes ,  truly ,  for look you ,  the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children .
i do not think but desdemona's honest.
not ?
not a word of me .
all’s well ,  sweeting ,  come away to bed . — myself will be your surgeon .
why ,  by making him uncapable of othello's place; knocking out his brains .
o ,  blood ,  blood ,  blood !
come you from old bellario?
farewell: i'll grow a talker for this gear .
you say you do not know the lady's mind.
less in your knowledge and your grace you show not than our earth’s wonder ,  more than earth divine .
have you scored me?
why ,  and i trust i may go too ,  may i not ?
thou hast obtained thy suit .
o most pernicious woman!
swear ?
eyes without feeling, feeling without sight, ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all, or but a sickly part of one true sense could not so mope.
i am given ,  sir ,  secretly to understand that your younger brother orlando hath a disposition to come in disguised against me to try a fall .
where got’st thou that goose look ?
thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
here's yet some liquor left.
good night ,  and better health attend his majesty !
why, what an ass am i!
o sweet mistress ,  speak !
stand aside.
for three months ,  well .
what are they that do play it ?
ancient ,  conduct them; you best know the place .
dispute it like a man .
without contradiction i have heard that .
pray god, your voice, like a piece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the ring.
here he is ,  here he is .
alas ,  the storm is come again !
here comes the fool ,  i' faith .
early in the morning see thou deliver it to my lord and father .
foh!
and what's the news, good cousin lodovico?
welcome from mantua.
not on thy sole ,  but on thy soul ,  harsh jew ,  thou mak'st thy knife keen; but no metal can ,  no ,  not the hangman's axe ,  bear half the keenness of thy sharp envy .
for thy three thousand ducats here is six .
you have not a man in all athens able to discharge pyramus but he.
your sister's drown'd ,  laertes .
tis he .
bear with him, brutus; 'tis his fashion.
o, how fit a word is that vile name to perish on my sword!
o dear discretion ,  how his words are suited !
tis torture, and not mercy.
what, goodman boy?
caesar and he are greater friends than ever .
sir ,  he answered me in the roundest manner he would not .
marry, heaven forbid!
doth thy other mouth call me ?
how now ,  my lord ?
so doth the greater glory dim the less: a substitute shines brightly as a king, unto the king be by; and then his state, empties itself, as doth an inland brook into the main of waters.
i did think ,  by the excellent constitution of thy leg ,  it was formed under the star of a galliard .
behind the arras i'll convey myself ,  to hear the process .
was that mine ?
throw my heart against the flint and hardness of my fault ,  which ,  being dried with grief ,  will break to powder and finish all foul thoughts .
not all the dukes of waterish burgundy can buy this unprized precious maid of me . — bid them farewell ,  cordelia ,  though unkind .
the several messengers from hence attend dispatch .
nay ,  i dare not swear it .
why ,  how should she be murdered ?
ah ,  women ,  women !
murder!
i hope we have reformed that indifferently with us ,  sir .
that's the dog's name .
but in my terms of honour i stand aloof ,  and will no reconcilement till by some elder masters of known honour i have a voice and precedent of peace to keep my name ungor'd .
give me my sin again.
how is it ,  my lord ?
what, is he angry?
i will not .
thou told'st me they were stolen unto this wood ,  and here am i ,  and wood within this wood ,  because i cannot meet my hermia .
sweets to the sweet .
we’ll hear him . —noble antony ,  go up .
thus has he—and many more of the same bevy that i know the drossy age dotes on—only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter, a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and through the most fanned and winnowed opinions; and do but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
but i have ,  sir ,  a son by order of law ,  some year older than this ,  who yet is no dearer in my account .
now ,  sweet lord ,  you know the goodness i intend upon you .
traverse, go, provide thy money.
o dardanius!
he bears him like a portly gentleman ,  and ,  to say truth ,  verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well - govern'd youth .
it is the wittiest partition that ever i heard discourse ,  my lord .
switch and spurs ,  switch and spurs ,  or i’ll cry a match .
he is ,  my lord ,  and safe in leicester town ,  whither ,  if it please you ,  we may now withdraw us .
o, there be players that i have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely, that, neither having the accent of christians, nor the gait of christian, pagan, nor man, have so strutted and bellowed that i have thought some of nature's journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
no ,  sir .
but are my brother’s powers set forth ?
lead the way .
then you will bring the chain to her yourself .
then music is even as the flourish, when true subjects bow to a new-crowned monarch: such it is, as are those dulcet sounds in break of day, that creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear, and summon him to marriage.
sweet sir andrew !
but what of cicero ?
how is it with her?
nor i ,  assure thee ,  regan . — edmund ,  i hear that you have shown your father a childlike office .
talkers are no good doers .
besides ,  it were a mock apt to be render'd ,  for some one to say  “ break up the senate till another time ,  when caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams .  ”  if caesar hide himself ,  shall they not whisper  “ lo ,  caesar is afraid ”  ?
still live they ,  and forever let them last .
mistress!
dry sorrow drinks our blood .
is't gone?
no ,  alas ,  i found it ,  and i did give't my husband .
pray ye ,  sir ?
here lies the east .
in wisdom i should ask thy name .
will you sup there?
o ,  farewell ,  farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump ,  the spiritstirring drum ,  the earpiercing fife ,  the royal banner ,  and all quality ,  pride ,  pomp ,  and circumstance of glorious war !
if we ,  with thrice such powers left at home ,  cannot defend our own doors from the dog ,  let us be worried ,  and our nation lose the name of hardiness and policy .
they must be bound and laid in some dark room .
nought's had, all's spent, where our desire is got without content.
they are, my lord, without the palace gate.
kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey .
thou art the ruins of the noblest man that ever lived in the tide of times.
their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage .
no such jade as you ,  if me you mean .
her fallow leas the darnel ,  hemlock ,  and rank fumitory doth root upon ,  while that the coulter rusts that should deracinate such savagery .
stoop ,  romans ,  stoop ,  and let us bathe our hands in caesar’s blood up to the elbows ,  and besmear our swords .
o momentary grace of mortal men ,  which we more hunt for than the grace of god !
tis no matter .
and how doth she ?
oh ,  that your highness knew my heart in this: i never loved my brother in my life .
she's dead ,  deceas'd; she's dead !
i found you as a morsel cold upon dead caesar’s trencher .
all the conspirators, save only he, did that they did in envy of great caesar; he only, in a general honest thought and common good to all, made one of them.
this is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
but, lepidus, go you to caesar's house, fetch the will hither, and we shall determine how to cut off some charge in legacies.
get me ink and paper ,  and hire post horses .
how have you known the miseries of your father ?
no ,  it is not possible you should love the enemy of france ,  kate .
i do believe it ,  and i ask your pardon .
claudius!
let her be round with him; and i'll be placed ,  so please you ,  in the ear of all their conference .
as waggish boys in game themselves forswear ,  so the boy love is perjured everywhere; for ere demetrius look'd on hermia's eyne ,  he hail'd down oaths that he was only mine; and when this hail some heat from hermia felt ,  so he dissolv'd ,  and showers of oaths did melt .
who must hang them?
signor antonio ,  many a time and oft in the rialto you have rated me about my moneys and my usances .
why ,  art thou mad ,  old fellow ?
capulet ,  montage ,  see what a scourge is laid upon your hate ,  that heaven finds means to kill your joys with love !
my young remembrance cannot parallel a fellow to it .
most happy !
and welcome more common ,  for that’s nothing but words .
of these we told him ,  and there did seem in him a kind of joy to hear of it .
i had most need of blessing, and “amen” stuck in my throat.
twill be recorded for a precedent ,  and many an error by the same example will rush into the state .
no ,  sir ,  i do not bite my thumb at you ,  sir; but i bite my thumb ,  sir .
my oberon!
o dolt !
is he alone ?
so farewell.
a braggart, a rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic!
here is a letter found in the pocket of the slain roderigo, and here another.
tis a lost fear: man but a rush against othello's breast ,  and he retires .
when he needs what you have glean'd ,  it is but squeezing you and ,  sponge ,  you shall be dry again .
all for our vantage .
say on; come to hecuba .
thus from my lips ,  by thine my sin is purg'd .
how long hath she been thus ?
neither .
and since you know you cannot see yourself so well as by reflection ,  i ,  your glass ,  will modestly discover to yourself that of yourself which you yet know not of .
thy false uncle— dost thou attend me ?
yet she must die ,  else she'll betray more men .
that done ,  repair to pompey’s theatre .
no, cassio is not kill'd.
if this fall into thy hand ,  revolve .
aside .
ay, marry, is't; but to my mind, though i am native here and to the manner born, it is a custom more honour'd in the breach than the observance.
thou 'rt mad to say it .
are there masques ?
i will not have to do with you .
did cicero say anything?
what a fearful night is this!
i heard it not .
ride you this afternoon?
love ,  therefore ,  and tongue - tied simplicity in least speak most to my capacity .
sister, where thou?
there lies your love .
what i can do i will; and more i will than for myself i dare.
you have forgot the will i told you of .
why ,  man ,  he’s a very devil .
here's to my love !
do so ,  and bid my sweet prepare to chide .
in belmont is a lady richly left, and she is fair, and, fairer than that word, of wondrous virtues.
no; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in athens .
how shall we find the concord of this discord ?
who else?
thanks to your highness .
you should then have accosted her ,  and with some excellent jests ,  fire - new from the mint ,  you should have banged the youth into dumbness .
this is some minx's token ,  and i must take out the work ?
lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe .
if all else fail ,  myself have power to die .
he is very near by this .
most like a gentleman .
where was she born ?
what is't you say ?
my own flesh and blood to rebel !
have by some surgeon, shylock, on your charge, to stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death.
think yourself a baby, that you have ta'en these tenders for true pay, which are not sterling.
poisoned ,  then .
i would have such a fellow whipped for o'erdoing termagant .
no, as i shall be saved.
if it be so, how little is the cost i have bestow'd, in purchasing the semblance of my soul from out the state of hellish cruelty!
unequal match'd, pyrrhus at priam drives, in rage strikes wide; but with the whiff and wind of his fell sword the unnerved father falls.
sir, in this audience, let my disclaiming from a purposed evil free me so far in your most generous thoughts that i have shot my arrow o'er the house and hurt my brother.
presently ?
i am sure you know him well enough .
i find you passing gentle .
the wren goes to ’t ,  and the small gilded fly does lecher in my sight .
nay, that's true, that's very true.
this sword but shown to caesar ,  with this tidings ,  shall enter me with him .
this to hear would desdemona seriously incline; but still the house affairs would draw her thence, which ever as she could with haste dispatch, she'ld come again, and with a greedy ear devour up my discourse; which i observing, took once a pliant hour, and found good means to draw from her a prayer of earnest heart that i would all my pilgrimage dilate, whereof by parcels she had something heard, but not intentively.
i can ,  petruchio ,  help thee to a wife with wealth enough ,  and young and beauteous ,  brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman .
ay ,  my good lord .
we'll keep no great ado— a friend or two; for hark you ,  tybalt being slain so late ,  it may be thought we held him carelessly ,  being our kinsman ,  if we revel much .
and thorough this distemperature we see the seasons alter: hoary - headed frosts fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose; and on old hiems' thin and icy crown an odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds is ,  as in mockery ,  set .
pray ,  write down ,   “ borachio .  ” —yours ,  sirrah ?
where is duncan's body?
by computation and mine host’s report ,  i could not speak with dromio since at first i sent him from the mart .
fouler than heart can think thee ,  thou canst make no excuse current but to hang thyself .
be assured of this, that the magnifico is much beloved, and hath in his effect a voice potential as double as the duke's.
if so ,  then be not tongue - tied .
i did very well note him .
tonight we hold a solemn supper, sir, and i'll request your presence.
within this hour my man shall be with thee and bring thee cords made like a tackled stair, which to the high topgallant of my joy must be my convoy in the secret night.
and all my children ?
what a pied ninny's this !
ere i would say i would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen ,  i would change my humanity with a baboon .
i must needs report the truth .
come ,  romeo .
a piece of him .
i hear a tongue ,  shriller than all the music ,  cry  “ caesar .  ”  speak ,  caesar is turn'd to hear .
the all-seeing sun ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
e'en that .
good my lord— you have been a boggler ever .
is she so hot a shrew as she’s reported ?
cry the man mercy ,  love him ,  take his offer .
yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him?
the images of revolt and flying off .
laertes, i must commune with your grief, or you deny me right.
i have an humor to knock you indifferently well .
what is this ,  that rises like the issue of a king ,  and wears upon his baby brow the round and top of sovereignty ?
you may go so far .
confined together in the same fashion as you gave in charge ,  just as you left them; all prisoners ,  sir in the lime - grove which weather - fends your cell; they cannot budge till your release .
give me some aqua vitae .
why the devil came you between us?
so fare you well .
follow me close ,  for i will speak to them .
sweet lady ,  ho ,  ho .
what devil art thou that dost torment me thus ?
arm ,  arm ,  my lord .
your highness bade me ask for it today .
now he denies it faintly and laughs it out.
o dear ophelia ,  i am ill at these numbers; i have not art to reckon my groans .
why ,  what canst thou tell ,  my boy ?
i am sure ,  sweet kate ,  this kindness merits thanks .
o ,  a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet .
or if thou follow me ,  do not believe but i shall do thee mischief in the wood .
holla !
tell me ,  good brutus ,  can you see your face ?
richard except ,  those whom we fight against had rather have us win than him they follow .
proceed directly .
no evil lost is wailed when it is gone .
here ,  here !
how now ?
come ,  you look paler and paler .
for the poor wren ,  the most diminutive of birds ,  will fight ,  her young ones in her nest ,  against the owl .
kneel not, gentle portia.
ha !
i hope he be in love .
we must bear all .
ay ,  madam .
death of thy soul !
a challenge ,  on my life .
be kind and courteous to this gentleman; hop in his walks ,  and gambol in his eyes; feed him with apricocks and dewberries ,  with purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries; the honey - bags steal from the humble - bees ,  and for night - tapers crop their waxen thighs ,  and light them at the fiery glow - worm's eyes ,  to have my love to bed and to arise; and pluck the wings from painted butterflies ,  to fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes .
tis a naughty night to swim in .
must i remember?
will all great neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hand ?
most miserable hour that e'er time saw in lasting labour of his pilgrimage !
how is't ,  my noble lord ?
many times ,  madam .
and now i pray you, sir— for still ’tis beating in my mind,—your reason for raising this sea-storm.
i think it be no other but e'en so.
is that my prize?
good morrow ,  caesar .
too well what love women to men may owe .
an there be any matter of weight chances ,  call up me .
fall to .
go thrust him out at gates ,  and let him smell his way to dover .
if ever i return to you again ,  i’ll bring you comfort .
we are undone ,  lady ,  we are undone !
you see her eyes are open .
you embrace your charge too willingly .
there’s no doubt his majesty will soon recover his accustomed health .
he is as horribly conceited of him ,  and pants and looks pale ,  as if a bear were at his heels .
within this hour it will be dinnertime .
monster ,  your fairy ,  which you say is a harmless fairy ,  has done little better than played the jack with us .
where’s antony ?
our purposes god justly hath discovered ,  and i repent my fault more than my death ,  which i beseech your highness to forgive ,  although my body pay the price of it .
where the devil should this romeo be?
it is not for you .
lord ,  how my head aches !
let us deal justly .
stand, ho!
came you from padua ,  from bellario ?
now art thou my lieutenant.
if thou pleasest not ,  i yield thee up my life .
sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting that would not let me sleep.
why ,  that’s all one .
we trifle time; i pray thee pursue sentence.
and thou unfit for any place but hell .
what, did they never whisper?
what would your gracious figure ?
before the time be out?
we learn no other but the confident tyrant keeps still in dunsinane and will endure our setting down before ’t .
pray ,  then ,  foresee me one .
fiery ”  ?
no .
a lover, or a tyrant?
seven days and nights ?
three proper young men of excellent growth and presence .
i may command where i adore ,  but silence ,  like a lucrece knife ,  with bloodless stroke my heart doth gore; m . o . a . i .
call up my brother.
and you shall speak in the same pulpit whereto i am going ,  after my speech is ended .
fare thee well .
o, pardon me for bringing these ill news, since you did leave it for my office, sir.
an honest man he is ,  and hates the slime that sticks on filthy deeds .
will you ha' the truth on't?
for there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths    in a glass .
others there are, who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty, keep yet their hearts attending on themselves, and throwing but shows of service on their lords do well thrive by them; and when they have lined their coats do themselves homage.
this night methinks is but the daylight sick .
thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate ,  but certain issue strokes must arbitrate; towards which ,  advance the war .
cunning .
and shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was fledged; and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam.
let me stand here till thou remember it .
these moors are changeable in their wills:—fill thy purse with money.
twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man .
strangle her in her bed ,  even the bed she hath contaminated .
my lord, my lord!
tis a point of wisdom .
will you have her ?
but, if you knew to whom you show this honour, how true a gentleman you send relief, how dear a lover of my lord your husband, i know you would be prouder of the work, than customary bounty can enforce you.
mark antony shall say i am not well ,  and ,  for thy humor ,  i will stay at home .
let me see—what think you of falling in love ?
my lord ,  i take my leave .
we will ourselves provide .
some good man bear him carefully from hence .
god be with you all .
the air breathes upon us here most sweetly .
i'll not fight with thee.
so romeo would ,  were he not romeo call'd ,  retain that dear perfection which he owes without that title .
thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er i nurs'd .
royal wench !
unless i have mista'en his colors much ,  which well i am assured i have not done ,  his regiment lies half a mile ,  at least ,  south from the mighty power of the king .
even when you please ,  since you will have it so .
mark antony shall say i am not well, and, for thy humor, i will stay at home.
well demanded, wench; my tale provokes that question.
master, young man, you; i pray you, which is the way to master jew's?
prithee ,  be cheerful .
a most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a poor drunkard!
but why should honor outlive honesty?
romeo ,  will you come to your father's ?
o woeful sympathy!
good ,  i' faith .
my lord bassanio, and my gentle lady, i wish you all the joy that you can wish; for i am sure you can wish none from me: and, when your honours mean to solemnize the bargain of your faith, i do beseech you, even at that time i may be married too.
a little ,  by your favor .
whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief— a passion most unsuiting such a man— cassio came hither .
thus says my king: an if your father’s highness do not ,  in grant of all demands at large ,  sweeten the bitter mock you sent his majesty ,  he’ll call you to so hot an answer of it that caves and womby vaultages of france shall chide your trespass and return your mock in second accent of his ordinance .
ay, and said nothing but what i protest intendment of doing.
let me the curtains draw.
my lord ,  mark antony ,  hearing that you prepared for war ,  acquainted my grievèd ear withal ,  whereon i begged his pardon for return .
let us hear what antony can say.
o hated potion ,  hence !
do you like me ,  kate ?
and sayst thou yet that exile is not death ?
i was of late as petty to his ends as is the morn - dew on the myrtle leaf to his grand sea .
who offered him the crown ?
i must confess your offer is the best ,  and ,  let your father make her the assurance ,  she is your own; else ,  you must pardon me .
i'll stay no longer question .
back ,  foolish tears ,  back to your native spring !
she had a song of  “ willow ” ; an old thing 'twas ,  but it express'd her fortune ,  and she died singing it .
no .
othello?
is he not light of brain?
not this hour ,  lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the clock .
so may the outward shows be least themselves; the world is still deceiv'd with ornament.
dost thou hear ,  lady ?
tush ,  fear not ,  man .
who ,  he ?
this is a dear manikin to you ,  sir toby .
who’s there ?
i once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus:  “ wonder of nature— ”   i have heard a sonnet begin so to one’s mistress .
your eldest daughters have fordone themselves ,  and desperately are dead .
touching this vision here, it is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
for with throwing thus my head ,   dogs leap the hatch ,  and all are fled .
how is't with you ?
my father’s spirit in arms .
how vilely doth this cynic rhyme !
o ,  this is the poison of deep grief; it springs all from her father's death .
all my engagements i will construe to thee, all the charactery of my sad brows.
when these prodigies do so conjointly meet ,  let not men say ,   “ these are their reasons .
then the liars and swearers are fools; for there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them .
alack ,  alack !
i thank your lordship ,  you have got me one .
if not the face of men ,  the sufferance of our souls ,  the time's abuse— if these be motives weak ,  break off betimes ,  and every man hence to his idle bed; so let high - sighted tyranny range on till each man drop by lottery .
anon he finds him ,  striking too short at greeks .
i do beseech ye, if you bear me hard, now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke, fulfill your pleasure.
welcome ,  then ,  thou unsubstantial air that i embrace !
my soul is full of discord and dismay.
tis he .
your dane ,  your german ,  and your swag - bellied hollander—drink ,  ho ! —are nothing to your english .
marry ,  th' athversary was have possession of the pridge ,  but he is enforced to retire ,  and the duke of exeter is master of the pridge .
how can that be ,  unless she drowned herself in her own defense ?
do not ,  my lord !
anon his thisbe must be answered ,  and forth my mimic comes .
look ,  lucius ,  here’s the book i sought for so .
it seldom visits sorrow .
come ,  madam ,  let's away ,  good morrow ,  cousin .
but will my rosalind do so ?
so please your grace ,  the prologue is addressed .
then take him up and manage well the jest .
no ,  no ,  he’s gone .
why then ,  thou hast it .
i am sorry thou wilt leave my father so; our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil, didst rob it of some taste of tediousness: but fare thee well: there is a ducat for thee.
some of your french crowns have no hair at all ,  and then you will play barefaced .
i bleed ,  sir ,  but not killed .
madam wife ,  they say that i have dreamed and slept above some fifteen year or more .
i loved you ever.
fear it ,  ophelia ,  fear it ,  my dear sister ,  and keep you in the rear of your affection ,  out of the shot and danger of desire .
who is it that complains unto the king that i ,  forsooth ,  am stern and love them not ?
o, she is lame!
that you must teach me .
no more than my residing here at rome might be to you in egypt .
sirrah ,  give place .
o god ,  that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains !
i do not now fool myself ,  to let imagination jade me ,  for every reason excites to this ,  that my lady loves me .
the king rises.
your fat king and your lean beggar is but variable service, two dishes, but to one table.
but here my father comes .
come ,  deal justly with me .
call you ?
and i beseech you ,  wrest once the law to your authority: to do a great right ,  do a little wrong; and curb this cruel devil of his will .
the grey - ey'd morn smiles on the frowning night ,  check'ring the eastern clouds with streaks of light; and flecked darkness like a drunkard reels from forth day's path and titan's fiery wheels .
could beauty ,  my lord ,  have better commerce than with honesty ?
now pile your dust upon the quick and dead till of this flat a mountain you have made to o'ertop old pelion or the skyish head of blue olympus .
see not your bride in these unreverent robes .
what, shall i find you here?
do as i bid thee, go.
o ,  in this love ,  you love your child so ill that you run mad ,  seeing that she is well .
they are weary ?
a gentleman ,  nurse ,  that loves to hear himself talk ,  and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month .
titania, music call; and strike more dead than common sleep of all these five the sense.
in spite of your heart ,  i think .
can such things be ,  and overcome us like a summer's cloud ,  without our special wonder ?
her body sleeps in capels’ monument ,  and her immortal part with angels lives .
o ,  train me not ,  sweet mermaid ,  with thy note to drown me in thy sister’s flood of tears .
i am glad on ’t .
by heaven ,  i will acquaint his majesty with those gross taunts that oft i have endured .
welcome ,  dear rosencrantz and guildenstern .
we’ll go to supper i' th' morning .
good nuncle ,  in ,  and ask thy daughters blessing .
we'll ha't tomorrow night.
not one now to mock your own grinning?
hail !
francis flute ,  the bellows - mender .
i'll not expostulate with her, lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again.
and the business you have broached here cannot be without you ,  especially that of cleopatra’s ,  which wholly depends on your abode .
tell me ,  good brutus ,  can you see your face ?
excellent .
as she is mine ,  i may dispose of her— which shall be either to this gentleman or to her death—according to our law immediately provided in that case .
verona ,  for a while i take my leave ,  to see my friends in padua ,  but of all my best belovèd and approvèd friend ,  hortensio .
but i know none ,  and therefore am no beast .
though you have put me into darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over me ,  yet have i the benefit of my senses as well as your ladyship .
it was a violent commencement, and thou shalt see an answer- able sequestration; put but money in thy purse.
what ,  durst not tempt him ?
why, how now, juliet?
o limed soul ,  that ,  struggling to be free ,  art more engaged !
my villainy ?
now, good angels preserve the king.
all you gods ,  in general synod take away her power; break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel ,  and bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven ,  as low as to the fiends !
i’ll fetch the general’s surgeon . — save you your labor . —he that lies slain here ,  cassio ,  was my dear friend .
sblood ,  but you will not hear me .
a foe to tyrants ,  and my country’s friend .
why ,  go to bed ,  and sleep .
but cheer thy heart ,  and be thou not dismayed .
i hope this passionate humor of mine will change .
but there's no bottom, none, in my voluptuousness.
well demanded ,  wench .
ay ,  marry ,  i'll be gone about it straight .
tis true my brother's daughter's queen of tunis; so is she heir of naples; ’twixt which regions there is some space.
where will the old duke live ?
heavens make our presence and our practices pleasant and helpful to him !
there is no more to say?
infer fair england’s peace by this alliance .
your majesty, and we that have free souls, it touches us not.
upon the stroke of four .
my invocation is fair and honest .
even what it please my lord that shall become him .
the fair ophelia!
to what base uses we may return, horatio!
why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth ,  unapt to toil and trouble in the world ,  but that our soft conditions and our hearts should well agree with our external parts ?
no ,  caesar shall not .
come on; in this there can be no dismay, my ships come home a month before the day.
amen ,  if you love her ,  for the lady is very well worthy .
i think i did ,  sir .
let me see ,  let me see .
how tartly that gentleman looks !
what trash is rome ,  what rubbish and what offal ,  when it serves for the base matter to illuminate so vile a thing as caesar ?
and i .
what paper were you reading ?
that the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird .
and i have been all this day to avoid him .
if you would not ,  it were a good sign that i should quickly have a new father .
i think he be angry indeed .
away!
i'll get me to a place more void and there speak to great caesar as he comes along.
my master is the great rich capulet; and if you be not of the house of montagues ,  i pray ,  come and crush a cup of wine .
shylock is my name .
i am your spaniel; and, demetrius, the more you beat me, i will fawn on you.
lo ,  here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit of an old tear that is not washed off yet .
what did thy song bode ,  lady ?
an it shall please you to break up this ,  it shall seem to signify .
i do follow here in the chase ,  not like a hound that hunts ,  but one that fills up the cry .
but this eternal blazon must not be to ears of flesh and blood .
sir toby ,  i must be round with you .
what handkerchief ?
but it is true , —without any slips of prolixity ,  or crossing the plain highway of talk , —that the good antonio ,  the honest antonio , —o that i had a title good enough to keep his name company ! — come ,  the full stop .
if we walk not in the trodden paths our very petticoats will catch them .
watch you tonight for the command ,  i’ll lay ’t upon you .
quarrel ,  sir ?
be it so .
waking] and run through fire i will for thy sweet sake.
give me those flowers .
what is it ye would see ?
who knows not that the gentle duke is dead ?
if you have poison for me ,  i will drink it .
how chance moonshine is gone before thisbe comes back and finds her lover ?
have you not set lysander ,  as in scorn ,  to follow me and praise my eyes and face ?
swear not by time to come ,  for that thou hast misused ere used ,  by times ill - used o'erpast .
how dost thou feel thyself now ?
come, nerissa.
good morrow ,  noble sir .
he shall spurn fate ,  scorn death ,  and bear his hopes 'bove wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear .
how do you all at verona ?
is the storm overblown?
adieu, brave moor, use desdemona well.
then have my lips the sin that they have took .
cassio’s my worthy friend— my lord ,  i see you’re moved .
do not you chide .
why, then may you leave a casement of the great chamber window, where we play, open; and the moon may shine in at the casement.
twas a fault unwilling .
nay, it is.
one inch of delay more is a south sea of discovery .
nay ,  then ,  good night our part .
he's fat ,  and scant of breath .
your ladyship were best to have some guard about you if he come ,  for sure the man is tainted in ’s wits .
thou art my love ,  i think .
lies all within . —deliver me the key .
nay ,  answer me .
and after this let caesar seat him sure; for we will shake him, or worse days endure.
give me my robe ,  for i will go .
by jupiter ,  this shall not be revoked .
very well !
my lord ,  we will not .
what ,  will our mother come ?
what’s he that was not born of woman ?
he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps.
and laid the love juice on some true love’s sight .
for england his approaches makes as fierce as waters to the sucking of a gulf .
let me speak like yourself ,  and lay a sentence which ,  as a grise or step ,  may help these lovers into your favor .
then ,  prophetlike ,  they hailed him father to a line of kings .
i’ll do my best to woo your lady— whoe'er i woo ,  myself would be his wife .
o weary night, o long and tedious night, abate thy hours!
some blessed power deliver us from hence !
your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
i denied you not.
o gentle romeo, if thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.
when i was with him i have heard him swear to tubal and to chus ,  his countrymen ,  that he would rather have antonio’s flesh than twenty times the value of the sum that he did owe him .
thou liest ,  malignant thing !
hence !
a light, a light!
give us kind keepers, heavens!
put money in thy purse; follow thou the wars; defeat thy favor with an usurped beard.
our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage .
are you fair?
wherefore?
ah, dear juliet, why art thou yet so fair?
yet here ,  laertes ?
follow me and receive ’t .
wilt thou ,  strato ?
your songs?
a happiness that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of.
we are in god’s hand ,  brother ,  not in theirs .
there is a tide in the affairs of men which taken at the flood leads on to fortune; omitted, all the voyage of their life is bound in shallows and in miseries.
to be your fellow you may deny me ,  but i’ll be your servant whether you will or no .
take thee that too .
i know not which is which .
i pray you go with me.
despair thy charm ,  and let the angel whom thou still hast served tell thee ,  macduff was from his mother's womb untimely ripp'd .
farewell ,  thou lob of spirits .
adieu ,  till your return at night .
my lord ?
truly, sir, all that i live by is with the awl; i meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's matters, but with awl.
he hath much land ,  and fertile .
which is that adversary ?
therefore use none .
there is a fair behavior in thee ,  captain ,  and though that nature with a beauteous wall doth oft close in pollution ,  yet of thee i will believe thou hast a mind that suits with this thy fair and outward character .
madam ,  what should i do ?
soon may i hear and see him .
why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of his action of battery?
wilt come ?
and what other oath than honesty to honesty engaged that this shall be or we will fall for it ?
a whoreson ,  mad fellow's it was .
stand to't.
i am as mad as he ,  if sad and merry madness equal be .
think it no more .
no, that were pity; i would entreat you rather to put on your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends that purpose merriment.
ready .
hence will i to my ghostly father's cell ,  his help to crave and my dear hap to tell .
half afeard to come .
lead him off .
thou'ld’st have ,  great glamis ,  that which cries ,   “ thus thou must do ,  ”  if thou have it ,  and that which rather thou dost fear to do ,  than wishest should be undone .
this is she—    peace ,  peace ,  mercutio ,  peace !
hie to your chamber .
how canst thou thus for shame ,  titania ,  knowing i know thy love to theseus ?
henceforth i’ll bear affliction till it do cry out itself ,   “ enough ,  enough ,  ”  and die .
this fortification ,  gentlemen ,  shall we see ’t ?
sister ,  where thou ?
know you any ,  hero ?
all which, sir, though i most powerfully and potently believe, yet i hold it not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir, shall grow old as i am if, if like a crab, you could go backward.
my lord ,  the enemy is past the marsh .
faith ,  e'en with losing his wits .
i have known when he would have walked ten mile afoot to see a good armor ,  and now will he lie ten nights awake carving the fashion of a new doublet .
do you not hear him?
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  fire burn and cauldron bubble .
one of them showed me a ring, that he had of your daughter for a monkey.
why he more than another ?
that i ask again ,  for nothing can be ill if she be well .
hold, take my sword.
and did not i in rage depart from thence ?
save me and hover o'er me with your wings, you heavenly guards!
miranda.
things that are past are done ,  with me .
follow ,  and see there be no harm between them .
may i know ?
thus much the business is: we have here writ to norway ,  uncle of young fortinbras— who ,  impotent and bed - rid ,  scarcely hears of this his nephew's purpose—to suppress his further gait herein ,  in that the levies ,  the lists ,  and full proportions ,  are all made out of his subject; and we here dispatch you ,  good cornelius ,  and you ,  voltimand ,  for bearers of this greeting to old norway ,  giving to you no further personal power to business with the king ,  more than the scope of these dilated articles allow .
think you to walk forth?
how can it he ?
i have well approved it ,  sir .
if there be truth in sight ,  you are my daughter .
tybalt would kill thee, but thou slewest tybalt.
i may command where i adore .  ”  why ,  she may command me .
yes ,  it is already garrison'd .
the labor we delight in physics pain .
ay, my good lord.
let’s follow it ,  and after do our work .
villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore; be sure of it.
if thou canst love me for this ,  take me .
what news ?
i have it, and soundly too.
let's do't, i pray: and i this morning know where we shall find him most conveniently.
go tell him of this.
fare you well .
i was never curst; i have no gift at all in shrewishness; i am a right maid for my cowardice; let her not strike me.
yes, he is dead.
do you hear, roderigo?
why ,  man ,  i saw bassanio under sail .
she durst not lie near this lack - love ,  this kill - courtesy .
i could never better stead thee than now .
come ,  bring us ,  bring us where he is .
revive ,  look up ,  or i will die with thee !
never believe it .
you shall see it will fall pat as i told you; yonder she comes .
a friend .
the gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand tenants.
so is he mine ,  and in such bloody distance that every minute of his being thrusts against my near'st of life: and though i could with barefaced power sweep him from my sight and bid my will avouch it ,  yet i must not ,  for certain friends that are both his and mine ,  whose loves i may not drop ,  but wail his fall who i myself struck down .
oh ,  ay .
and now they never meet in grove or green ,  by fountain clear ,  or spangled starlight sheen ,  but they do square ,  that all their elves for fear creep into acorn cups and hide them there .
go, nurse, go with her.
strato ,  thou hast been all this while asleep .
i did love you once .
no ,  it is thyself ,  mine own self’s better part ,  mine eye’s clear eye ,  my dear heart’s dearer heart ,  my food ,  my fortune ,  and my sweet hope’s aim ,  my sole earth’s heaven ,  and my heaven’s claim .
i ,  beyond all limit of what else i'th’ world ,  do love ,  prize ,  honour you .
to prison ,  eyes ,  ne'er look on liberty .
tell him ,  when that our princely father york blessed his three sons with his victorious arm ,  he little thought of this divided friendship .
pray ,  what do you think is his name ?
he supp'd at my house; but i therefore shake not .
antonio is a good man .
your cause of sorrow must not be measured by his worth ,  for then it hath no end .
so shall i clothe me in a forced content ,  and shut myself up in some other course ,  to fortune’s alms .
well, we shall see your bearing.
but such officers do the king best service in the end .
if thou speak’st false ,  upon the next tree shall thou hang alive till famine cling thee .
hark!
i thank you ,  madam .
in that and all things will we show our duty .
you tallow face !
thou canst compel no more than she entreat .
what ,  my young lady and mistress ?
you have prevailed .
lay thy finger thus ,  and let thy soul be instructed .
she is dead .
name what part i am for ,  and proceed .
o wicked wall ,  through whom i see no bliss ,  curs'd he thy stones for thus deceiving me !
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  'where is your mother ?
o hated potion ,  hence !
some of my shame ,  if you will know of me what man i am ,  and how ,  and why ,  and where this handkercher was stained .
which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
i see the ruin of my house .
if he be so resolved ,  i can o'ersway him .
she was too fond of her most filthy bargain.
of one whose hand ,  like the base indian ,  threw a pearl away richer than all his tribe .
but where’s my fool ?
if not ,  i'll die your maid: to be your fellow you may deny me ,  but i'll be your servant whether you will or no .
i grant indeed it hath not appeared ,  and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment .
o hamlet ,  thou hast cleft my heart in twain .
how dost thou ,  charles ?
i warrant thee my man's as true as steel.
what are you there ?
madam ,  i heard her speak .
belike some things—i know not what .
o ,  she's rich in beauty; only poor that ,  when she dies ,  with beauty dies her store .
he is or ta'en or slain .
may be the letter moved him; for, as i think, they do command him home, deputing cassio in his government.
treason !
well ,  but to my choice .
o ,  fear me not !
methought i was enamour'd of an ass.
lord of lords !
i prithee ,  vent thy folly somewhere else .
dispute it like a man.
rome ,  thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods !
there is so much that thou wilt kill me straight: kill brutus, and be honor'd in his death.
i am your own forever .
tell him there’s a post come from my master with his horn full of good news .
a trade, sir, that, i hope, i may use with a safe con- science, which is indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
ay ,  amen !
he being thus lorded ,  not only with what my revenue yielded ,  but what my power might else exact ,  like one who having into truth ,  by telling of it ,  made such a sinner of his memory to credit his own lie ,  he did believe he was indeed the duke; out o'th’ substitution ,  and executing the outward face of royalty with all prerogative; hence his ambition growing— dost thou hear ?
a madness most discreet, a choking gall, and a preserving sweet.
what manner o’ thing is your crocodile ?
nay ,  that's true ,  that's very true .
sweet phoebe ,  do not scorn me .
help ,  help ,  o ,  help !
he made you for a highway to my bed ,  but i ,  a maid ,  die maiden - widowèd .
enough to purchase what you have made known .
attend the lords of france and burgundy ,  gloucester .
most worthy gentleman, i, and my friend, have by your wisdom been this day acquitted of grievous penalties; in lieu whereof, three thousand ducats, due unto the jew, we freely cope your courteous pains withal.
behold where stands the usurper’s cursèd head .
brief ,  i recovered him ,  bound up his wound ,  and after some small space ,  being strong at heart ,
most beautiful pagan , —most sweet jew !
and most chirurgeonly.
therefore our everlasting farewell take .
the galleys have sent a dozen sequent messengers this very night at one another's heels; and many of the consuls ,  raised and met ,  are at the duke's already .
beat me !
and after that he came thus sad away ?
nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress.
god bless you ,  sir .
but i do see you're moved; i am to pray you not to strain my speech to grosser issues, nor to larger reach than to suspicion.
how satisfied, my lord?
where hast thou been, sister?
o dear !
but let this same be presently perform'd, even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance on plots and errors happen.
thy noble shape is but a form of wax digressing from the valour of a man; thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury, killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish; thy wit, that ornament to shape and love, misshapen in the conduct of them both, like powder in a skilless soldier's flask, is set afire by thine own ignorance, and thou dismemb'red with thine own defence.
you bid me make it orderly and well ,  according to the fashion and the time .
where's your master ?
when they are gone ,  then must i count my gains .
more torches here!
fie !
thy edward he is dead ,  that killed my edward ,  thy other edward dead ,  to quit my edward; young york ,  he is but boot ,  because both they matched not the high perfection of my loss .
you do remember all the circumstance ?
look ,  here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers .
is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn, or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue which she hath prais'd him with above compare so many thousand times?
well met ,  my lord .
did he not straight, in pious rage, the two delinquents tear, that were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
come ,  come and take a queen worth many babes and beggars !
i tell thee ,  churlish priest ,  a ministering angel shall my sister be when thou liest howling .
help !
i pray you ,  now receive them .
see, it stalks away!
peace ,  i say !
they in themselves ,  good - sooth ,  are too - too light .
why ,  thou silly gentleman !
good morrow ,  brutus ,  do we trouble you ?
let me love him for that ,  and do you love him because i do .
that he hath not .
o ,  what a noble mind is here o'erthrown !
in every good thing .
o, the more angel she, and you the blacker devil!
prithee, tonight lay on my bed my wedding sheets.
and more i beg not .
grieve not that i am fallen to this for you; for herein fortune shows herself more kind than is her custom: it is still her use ,  to let the wretched man out - live his wealth ,  to view with hollow eye ,  and wrinkled brow ,  an age of poverty; from which lingering penance of such misery doth she cut me off .
but he which bore my letter, friar john, was stay'd by accident, and yesternight return'd my letter back.
he ,  sir .
ay ,  is ’t ,  i warrant him .
and tell me now ,  sweet friend ,  what happy gale blows you to padua here from old verona ?
if brutus will vouchsafe that antony may safely come to him and be resolved how caesar hath deserved to lie in death ,  mark antony shall not love caesar dead so well as brutus living ,  but will follow the fortunes and affairs of noble brutus thorough the hazards of this untrod state with all true faith .
tis unnatural ,  even like the deed that's done .
a sail.
here comes the man ,  sir ,  that did rescue me .
thee and thy virtues here i seize upon ,  be it lawful i take up what’s cast away .
o ,  yes ,  and went between us very oft .
so far he topp'd my thought that i ,  in forgery of shapes and tricks ,  come short of what he did .
nay ,  had she been true ,  if heaven would make me such another world of one entire and perfect chrysolite ,  i'ld not have sold her for it .
i would not for the wealth of all this town here in my house do him disparagement.
let’s briefly put on manly readiness ,  and meet i' th' hall together .
oh ,  she is ten times more gentle than her father’s crabbed ,  and he’s composed of harshness .
virtue is no hornmaker ,  and my rosalind is virtuous .
things growing are not ripe until their season .
but ,  o grief ,  where hast thou led me ?
go to ,  charm your tongue .
would't had been done !
ariel, thy charge exactly is performed; but there's more work.
trust to ’t ,  bethink you .
i think it is in macedon where alexander is porn .
thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose.
who’s here ?
twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
how every fool can play upon the word!
not with salt tears .
i know not ,  lady .
my child ,  my only life ,  revive ,  look up ,  or i will die with thee ! — help ,  help !
well ,  look unto it .
long live gonzalo!
o loving hate !
i do not understand .
you advise me well .
let me sit down .
no ,  madam ,  i do but read madness .
think what thou wilt, i am thy lover's grace; and like limander am i trusty still.
have you your father's leave ?
yet you ,  the murderer ,  look as bright ,  as clear ,  as yonder venus in her glimmering sphere .
i warrant you ,  my lord .
do that good mischief which may make this island thine own for ever, and i, thy caliban, for aye thy foot-licker.
directly.
of this my letters before did satisfy you .
will you go to them ?
give me my principal ,  and let me go .
ere i ope his letter, i pray you tell me how my good friend doth.
prithee ,  come; will you ?
think what thou wilt ,  i am thy lover’s grace .
many good morrows to my noble lord .
didst thou not say he lied ?
all ports i’ll bar .
most noble brother ,  you have done me wrong .
if you have any music that may not be heard ,  to ’t again .
is not this true ?
if we do lose this battle ,  then is this the very last time we shall speak together .
here comes the furious tybalt back again .
here ,  here comes master signior leonato ,  and the sexton too .
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands ,  and they unwash'd too ,  'tis a foul thing .
fly ,  good fleance ,  fly ,  fly ,  fly !
there’s comfort yet; they are assailable .
that is my rest; that is the rendezvous of it .
here comes my messenger . —how now ,  mad spirit ?
for this slave ,  if there be any cunning cruelty that can torment him much and hold him long ,  it shall be his .
music i’ th’ air .
a false conclusion .
and art thou chang'd?
come ,  let's away; the strangers all are gone .
bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the jail .
who calls me villain ?
canst thou ,  when thou command’st the beggar’s knee ,  command the health of it ?
we'll burn his body in the holy place and with the brands fire the traitors' houses.
this sight of death is as a bell ,  that warns my old age to a sepulcher .
i pray you ,  turn the key and keep our counsel .
why should he follow ?
is it not like the king ?
all’s one .
marry ,  sir ,  lullaby to your bounty till i come again .
that it would please you leave these sad designs to him that hath more cause to be a mourner ,  and presently repair to crosby house ,  where ,  after i have solemnly interred at chertsey monast'ry this noble king and wet his grave with my repentant tears ,  i will with all expedient duty see you .
why ,  do not your courtier’s hands sweat ?
go to ,  you are not ,  cassius .
tis a notorious villain.
not dead?
she says enough; yet she's a simple bawd that cannot say as much.
you knew my father well ,  and in him me ,  left solely heir to all his lands and goods ,  which i have bettered rather than decreased .
he did comply with his dug before he sucked it .
my hands are of your color, but i shame to wear a heart so white.
no ,  iago ,  i'll see before i doubt; when i doubt ,  prove; and on the proof ,  there is no more but this ,  away at once with love or jealousy !
fourscore ducats !
we have willing dames enough; there cannot be that vulture in you ,  to devour so many as will to greatness dedicate themselves ,  finding it so inclined .
where am i ?
welcome ,  dear rosencrantz and guildenstern .
you amaze me .
titinius ,  if thou lovest me ,  mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him ,  till he have brought thee up to yonder troops and here again ,  that i may rest assured whether yond troops are friend or enemy .
is all the counsel that we two have shared, the sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent, when we have chid the hasty-footed time for parting us,—o, is all forgot?
thou hast forspoke my being in these wars and sayst it is not fit .
o heaven ,  o earth ,  bear witness to this sound and crown what i profess with kind event
tender yourself more dearly, or—not to crack the wind of the poor phrase, running it thus—you'll tender me a fool.
is ’t possible you will away tonight ?
dun's the mouse, the constable's own word!
i will so .
but ,  i pray you ,  let none of your people stir me; i have an exposition of sleep come upon me .
they are so still ,  or thou ,  the greatest soldier of the world ,  art turned the greatest liar .
now pile your dust upon the quick and dead till of this flat a mountain you have made to o'ertop old pelion or the skyish head of blue olympus.
draw ,  you rogue ,  for though it be night yet the moon shines .
what's the matter ,  lieutenant ?
may you stead me ?
why ?
romeo will answer it .
i will challenge him .
i am locked in one of them .
what think you on't?
go therefore ,  tell thy master: here i am .
i dare not say he lies anywhere .
our royal master's murdered.
i am content .
here ,  mighty theseus .
i do assure you ,  ’tis against my will .
that he hath used thee .
with drink, sir?
what do i see on thee?
let it be so .
away !
now go to the door ,  and stay there till we call .
double, double, toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble.
why ,  then let’s home again .
yet again your fingers to your lips ?
oh ,  a good wish upon you .
thou shalt be free.
prepare you ,  generals .
he was disposed to mirth ,  but on the sudden a roman thought hath struck him . —enobarbus !
i know thee well enough .
sir topas ,  sir topas !
you are well fleshed .
as proper men as ever trod upon neats-leather have gone upon my handiwork.
things base and vile ,  holding no quantity ,  love can transpose to form and dignity .
o hard condition ,  twin - born with greatness ,  subject to the breath of every fool ,  whose sense no more can feel but his own wringing .
this you should pity rather than despise .
there attend my coming .
it’s true ,  good lieutenant .
a halter gratis; nothing else, for god's sake!
they shall ,  nerissa; but in such a habit ,  that they shall think we are accomplished with that we lack .
a friend of antony's.
what noise is this ?
i pray you ,  remember the porter .
ay, marry, go, i say, and fetch him hither.
it cannot be that she hath done thee wrong .
tis an unweeded garden that grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature possess it merely .
i think it well ,  my lord .
do not for ever with thy vailed lids seek for thy noble father in the dust.
then confess what treason there is mingled with your love .
once more remove, good friends.
therefore heaven nature charged that one body should be filled with all graces wide - enlarged .
nay ,  we must think men are not gods ,  nor of them look for such observances as fit the bridal .
yea ,  is the worst well ?
good morrow ,  richmond .
you shall be soon dispatched with fair conditions .
my lord ,  i have remembrances of yours that i have longèd long to redeliver .
what will this do ?
what would you ?
we are arrant knaves all; believe none of us .
what is't ,  laertes ?
die two months ago, and not forgotten yet?
i think it doth.
calls my lord?
this to hear would desdemona seriously incline; but still the house affairs would draw her thence ,  which ever as she could with haste dispatch ,  she'ld come again ,  and with a greedy ear devour up my discourse; which i observing ,  took once a pliant hour ,  and found good means to draw from her a prayer of earnest heart that i would all my pilgrimage dilate ,  whereof by parcels she had something heard ,  but not intentively .
it must be by his death ,  and ,  for my part ,  i know no personal cause to spurn at him ,  but for the general .
pray you, leave your courtesy, good monsieur.
i say it is the moon that shines so bright .
i’ll be thy second .
believe me for mine honor, and have respect to mine honor, that you may believe.
tomorrow night when phoebe doth behold her silver visage in the watery glass ,  decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass (a time that lovers' flights doth still conceal) ,  through athens' gates have we devised to steal .
who bare my letter ,  then ,  to romeo ?
now ,  as you are a roman ,  tell me true .
that we should, with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause, transform ourselves into beasts!
ay ,  and this .
the sight is dismal; and our affairs from england come too late .
now ,  if you love me ,  stay .
ay, and brought off the field.
o wherefore ,  nature ,  didst thou lions frame ?
but how is it that this lives in thy mind ?
how shall i murder him ,  iago ?
let me see the county.
so do not i .
now die, die, die, die, die.
hear his speech but say thou nought .
sweet remembrancer !
i will bestow him ,  and will answer well the death i gave him .
such a mad marriage never was before .
how cheer'st thou ,  jessica ?
hear me ,  hear me what i say: he that strikes the first stroke ,  i’ll run him up to the hilts ,  as i am a soldier .
i’ll have them sleep on cushions in my tent .
it falls right.
away with him !
the ground indeed is tawny .
it was not brought me ,  my lord .
look what a wardrobe here is for thee!
throw some of them at me .
unhappy fortune !
but i' faith ,  i should have been a woman by right .
o piteous spectacle !
wash me in steepdown gulfs of liquid fire !
thy husband knew it all .
now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks .
o lord ,  he will hang upon him like a disease !
they are coming to the play.
i have this present evening from my sister been well informed of them—and with such cautions that if they come to sojourn at my house i’ll not be there .
he were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and benedick .
that i did for him .
well, let his father be what a will, we talk of young master launcelot.
what does he say of brutus ?
o god ,  did romeo’s hand shed tybalt’s blood ?
you are but now cast in his mood, a punishment more in policy than in malice; even so as one would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion.
cassio ,  may you suspect who they should be that have thus mangled you ?
shall we sound him ?
you cannot ,  if my heart were in your hand; nor shall not ,  whilst 'tis in my custody .
sure ,  i think so ,  and therefore certainly it were not good she knew his love ,  lest she make sport at it .
this letter from bellario doth commend a young and learnèd doctor to our court .
it will make you melancholy ,  monsieur jaques .
i’ll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead .
so that by my foes ,  sir i profit in the knowledge of myself ,  and by my friends ,  i am abused .
and till the tears that she hath shed for thee like envious floods o'errun her lovely face ,  she was the fairest creature in the world— and yet she is inferior to none .
you are not wood, you are not stones, but men; and, being men, hearing the will of caesar, it will inflame you, it will make you mad.
now ,  ere the sun advance his burning eye ,  the day to cheer and night’s dank dew to dry ,  i must upfill this osier cage of ours with baleful weeds and precious - juicèd flowers .
not so ,  my lord .
i say ,  we will have no more marriages .
sound, music.
give me my armor .
to the best bride-bed will we, which by us shall blessed be; and the issue there create ever shall be fortunate.
to bed ,  to bed; there's knocking at the gate .
my lord ,  we will not .
but who comes here ?
now is the time of help .
sunday comes apace .
you show'd your teeth like apes ,  and fawn'd like hounds ,  and bow'd like bondmen ,  kissing caesar's feet; whilst damned casca ,  like a cur ,  behind struck caesar on the neck .
i’ll give ’t him .
the king hath heard them ,  to the which as yet there is no answer made .
and made your other love ,  demetrius— who even but now did spurn me with his foot— to call me goddess ,  nymph ,  divine ,  and rare ,  precious ,  celestial ?
and what say’st thou then to my love ?
you may to me ,  and ’tis most meet you should .
you have a daughter called elizabeth ,  virtuous and fair ,  royal and gracious .
i’ll have some proof .
am i not stay'd for, cinna?
two thousand ducats by the year of land !
blow me about in winds !
no mind that's honest but in it shares some woe ,  though the main part pertains to you alone .
and the tears of it are wet .
you the like loss ?
nay ,  the man hath no wit that cannot ,  from the rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb ,  vary deserved praise on my palfrey .
and that’s true too .
we shall have a rare letter from him: but you’ll not deliver ’t ?
i would not be the villain that thou think’st for the whole space that’s in the tyrant’s grasp ,  and the rich east to boot .
farewell ,  good signior love .
but till i come again ,  no bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay ,  no rest be interposer ’twixt us twain .
methinks i have a great desire to a bottle of hay .
that will be ere the set of sun .
the man that hath no music in himself ,  nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet sounds ,  is fit for treasons ,  stratagems ,  and spoils; the motions of his spirit are dull as night ,  and his affections dark as erebus: let no such man be trusted . —mark the music .
is not ,  sir ,  my doublet as fresh as the first day i wore it ?
was my father a traitor ,  mother ?
i will, my lord.
go to .
ay ,  pilgrim ,  lips that they must use in prayer .
and if thy poor devoted servant may but beg one favor at thy gracious hand ,  thou dost confirm his happiness forever .
mistress !
i remember .
and aroint thee ,  witch ,  aroint thee !
have you importuned him by any means ?
dead?
here; what would my lord?
as mine on hers ,  so hers is set on mine ,  and all combined ,  save what thou must combine by holy marriage .
a trim exploit ,  a manly enterprise ,  to conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes with your derision !
he hath not yet made wan- ton the night with her, and she is sport for jove.
he is full so valiant, and in his commendations i am fed; it is a banquet to me.
shut up your doors .
upon that i kiss your hand ,  and i call you my queen .
o bottom ,  thou art changed !
hark thee ,  clitus .
thou art like one of these fellows that, when he enters the confines of a tavern, claps me his sword upon the table and says ‘god send me no need of thee!’ and by the operation of the second cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
if he love caesar ,  all that he can do is to himself ,  take thought and die for caesar .
go thy ways to a nunnery .
for thou art as glorious to this night, being o'er my head, as is a winged messenger of heaven unto the white-upturned wond'ring eyes of mortals that fall back to gaze on him when he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds and sails upon the bosom of the air.
my daughter tells us all .
well ,  sir ,  in brief ,  the gown is not for me .
there will we dine .
oh ,  ay ,  curtis ,  ay ,  and therefore fire ,  fire .
thou shalt be loggerhead . —good faith ,  ’tis day .
i did not kill your husband .
see where she comes from shrift with merry look .
oh ,  was she so ?
excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish.
i would it might prove the end of his losses!
now do i see 'tis true .
never—o fault ! —revealed myself unto him until some half - hour past ,  when i was armed .
they fell together all ,  as by consent; they dropped ,  as by a thunder - stroke .
i have forgot why i did call thee back.
for the heavens ,  he shows me where the bachelors sit ,  and there live we as merry as the day is long .
small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast .
i never saw you in my life till now .
you would be satisfied?
heavens rain grace on that which breeds between ’em!
i will give out divers schedules of my beauty .
was the crown offered him thrice ?
o valiant cousin !
my fault ,  but not my body ,  pardon ,  sovereign .
good morrow, noble sir.
by'r lady, thirty years.
but ’tis all one; ’tis alike as my fingers is to my fingers ,  and there is salmons in both .
i found it in my chamber.
a piece of ice .
in truth ,  i know it is a sin to be a mocker; but ,  he !
rebellion's head, rise never, till the wood of birnam rise, and our high-placed macbeth shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath to time and mortal custom.
come on .
th' occasion speaks thee ,  and my strong imagination sees a crown dropping upon thy head .
how now ,  you secret ,  black ,  and midnight hags ?
live roderigo ,  he calls me to a restitution large of gold and jewels that i bobb'd from him ,  as gifts to desdemona; it must not be .
caesar sits down in alexandria ,  where i will oppose his fate .
i have sent to bid cassio come speak with you .
how silent is this town!
i’ll none now .
speak to her, hamlet.
alas ,  thou hast misconstrued every thing !
remorseless ,  treacherous ,  lecherous ,  kindless villain !
i am not treacherous .
therefore thou must be hanged at the state’s charge .
prepare the body then, and follow us.
it hath not appeared .
or am i mad, hearing him talk of juliet to think it was so?
if i should speak ,  she would mock me into air .
let her have your voices .
why, i pray you?
i will expect you .
who are the late commissioners ?
go and trim her up .
bade him anon return and here speak with me ,  the which he promised .
on thy life i charge thee ,  hold !
then weep no more .
hath it not ,  boy ?
there’s nothing in her yet .
there ,  my lord .
romeo!
within this three mile may you see it coming; i say, a moving grove.
have you that i sent you for ?
ay, marry, why was he sent into england?
dead ,  dead ?
seal up the mouth of outrage for a while, till we can clear these ambiguities and know their spring, their head, their true descent; and then will i be general of your woes and lead you even to death.
o ,  the world hath not a sweeter creature .
gentlemen all , —alas ,  what shall i say ?
what's here ?
pay him six thousand ,  and deface the bond; double six thousand ,  and then treble that ,  before a friend of this description shall lose a hair through bassanio's fault .
hold off your hands .
flat burglary as ever was committed .
yet would not so have been ,  durst i have done my will .
fare thee well at once .
we the globe can compass soon, swifter than the wandering moon.
romeo ,  good night .
what would you, desdemona?
by this hand ,  they are scoundrels and substractors that say so of him .
othello ,  the fortitude of the place is best known to you; and though we have there a substitute of most allowed sufficiency ,  yet opinion ,  a sovereign mistress of effects ,  throws a more safer voice on you .
farewell!
besides ,  the king’s name is a tower of strength which they upon the adverse party want .
sola, sola!
all but metellus cimber, and he's gone to seek you at your house.
say ,  how grows it due ?
let me go .
good morrow, brutus, do we trouble you?
the better for the king of heaven that hath him .
signior ,  it is the moor .
come, come away.
i have done, my lord.
who is to be buried in't?
fool ,  of thyself speak well .
tyrant ,  show thy face !
your hand ,  leonato .
stanley ,  look to your wife .
his highness is not well .
when 'twas a little prating thing—o, there is a nobleman in town, one paris, that would fain lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lieve see a toad, a very toad, as see him.
he jests at scars that never felt a wound.
past question ,  for thou seest it will not curl by nature .
what shall i do?
hence !
and be all traitors that do so ?
o ,  yet i do repent me of my fury ,  that i did kill them .
dian's bud o'er cupid's flower hath such force and blessed power .
thanks, you the valiant of this warlike isle, that so approve the moor!
go ,  farewell .
your name ,  i pray you ,  friend ?
get thee to bed, francisco.
go ,  gratiano ,  run and overtake him; give him the ring; and bring him ,  if thou canst ,  unto antonio's house:—away !
where is my lady?
and she’s obedient ,  as you say ,  obedient ,  very obedient . —proceed you in your tears . — concerning this ,  sir—oh ,  well - painted passion ! — i am commanded home . —get you away ,  i’ll send for you anon . —sir ,  i obey the mandate and will return to venice . —hence ,  avaunt !
you are welcome, masters; welcome, all.
ay, marry, are they, sir.
oh ,  you are men of stones .
i have brought you from venice .
hey ,  mountain ,  hey !
good my lord ,  enter .
o, no, a lantern, slaughtr'd youth, for here lies juliet, and her beauty makes this vault a feasting presence full of light.
will you sup there ?
bless the isle of cyprus and our noble general othello !
talk not ,  signior gremio .
ah ,  dear ,  if i be so ,  from my cold heart let heaven engender hail ,  and poison it in the source ,  and the first stone drop in my neck .
so would not i .
a conduit ,  girl ?
tis gone, and will not answer.
let me see .
into what dangers would you lead me ,  cassius ,  that you would have me seek into myself for that which is not in me ?
i'll to the friar to know his remedy .
take heed ,  sirrah—the whip .
the clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it.
thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel.
what ,  and stake down ?
good faith ,  how foolish are our minds !
the best news is that we have safely found our king and company; the next, our ship, which but three glasses since we gave out split, is tight and yare and bravely rigged as when we first put out to sea.
didst not thou lead him through the glimmering night from perigouna ,  whom he ravished ?
first let us go to dinner .
then have at thee, boy!
they say he parted well and paid his score .
it will not let you eat ,  nor talk ,  nor sleep ,  and ,  could it work so much upon your shape as it hath much prevail'd on your condition ,  i should not know you ,  brutus .
your hands, come!
write them together ,  yours is as fair a name; sound them ,  it doth become the mouth as well; weigh them ,  it is as heavy; conjure with 'em ,  brutus will start a spirit as soon as caesar .
did ever dian so become a grove as kate this chamber with her princely gait ?
i pray you ,  let not my jealousies be your dishonors ,  but mine own safeties .
receive what cheer you may .
your features ,  lord warrant us !
marry ,  sir ,  she’s the kitchen wench ,  and all grease ,  and i know not what use to put her to but to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light .
alas ,  good kate ,  i will not burden thee ,  for knowing thee to be but young and light— too light for such a swain as you to catch ,  and yet as heavy as my weight should be .
marry ,  here’s grace and a codpiece—that’s a wise man and a fool .
by my life ,  i do .
said he not so ?
pardon ,  dear father .
well ,  god give them wisdom that have it .
what do you think of me?
heaven will direct it .
he lies to the heart.
he has my dying voice .
is thy news good ,  or bad ?
hover through the fog and filthy air .
madam ,  how like you this play ?
how came these things to pass ?
nay ,  that’s certain .
would ?
she did show favor to the youth in your sight only to exasperate you ,  to awake your dormouse valor ,  to put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver .
some good man bear him carefully from hence; i'll fetch the general's surgeon .
if they do see thee ,  they will murder thee .
alas, poor romeo, he is already dead!
shall ,  antipholus ,  even in the spring of love thy love - springs rot ?
hence ,  horrible villain ,  or i’ll spurn thine eyes like balls before me !
no ,  madam; we have cull'd such necessaries as are behoveful for our state to - morrow .
then is there mirth in heaven when earthly things ,  made even ,  atone together .
i pray you, after the lieutenant; go.
gentle mercutio, put thy rapier up.
be assured we go to use our hands and not our tongues .
tis expressly against the law of arms .
hark !
then let us say ,  you are sad ,  because you are not merry: and 'twere as easy for you to laugh ,  and leap ,  and say you are merry ,  because you are not sad .
to you i am bound for life and education .
god ye good-den, fair gentlewoman.
i'll observe his looks; i'll tent him to the quick.
what noise is that ?
in sooth, i know not why i am so sad; it wearies me; you say it wearies you; but how i caught it, found it, or came by it, what stuff 'tis made of, whereof it is born, i am to learn; and such a want-wit sadness makes of me, that i have much ado to know myself.
in voices well divulged ,  free ,  learned ,  and valiant; and in dimension and the shape of nature a gracious person .
what is ’t you say ?
so that ,  dear lords ,  if i be left behind ,  a moth of peace ,  and he go to the war ,  the rites for which i love him are bereft me ,  and i a heavy interim shall support by his dear absence .
you shall have letters from me to my son in your behalf ,  to meet you on the way .
no cause ,  no cause .
madam ,  i had rather seal my lips than to my peril speak that which is not .
how that might change his nature ,  there’s the question .
of fighting men they have full threescore thousand .
what would you undertake to show yourself your father's son in deed more than in words ?
thyself shalt see the act: for ,  as thou urgest justice ,  be assur'd thou shalt have justice ,  more than thou desirest .
mad for thy love?
if it please you to dine with us .
messala ,  i have here receivèd letters that young octavius and mark antony come down upon us with a mighty power ,  bending their expedition toward philippi .
true is it that we have seen better days and have with holy bell been knolled to church ,  and sat at good men’s feasts and wiped our eyes of drops that sacred pity hath engendered .
caesar and lepidus have made wars upon pompey .
this ?
i could teach you how to choose right ,  but then i am forsworn; so will i never be: so may you miss me; but if you do ,  you'll make me wish a sin ,  that i had been forsworn .
o ,  now let richmond and elizabeth ,  the true succeeders of each royal house ,  by god’s fair ordinance conjoin together ,  and let their heirs ,  god ,  if thy will be so .
well .
do not go forth today .
come, my lord.
i will not sup tonight .
marry ,  now i can tell !
i shall entreat him to answer like himself .
dear duff, i prithee, contradict thyself, and say it is not so.
what soldiers, patch?
here is a place reserved, sir.
all the conspirators save only he did that they did in envy of great caesar .
cousin, there's fall'n between him and my lord an unkind breech; but you shall make all well.
to antonio] as many [to adrian] that our garments, being, as they were, [to adrian] that our garments, being, as they were, drenched in the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with salt water.
things at the worst will cease ,  or else climb upward to what they were before . —my pretty cousin ,  blessing upon you .
antonio shall become bound ,  well .
nay ,  i’ll help too .
i know not ,  madam .
ay ,  marry ,  was ’t ,  and he put it by thrice ,  every time gentler than other ,  and at every putting - by mine honest neighbors shouted .
what cannot be preserved when fortune takes, patience her injury a mockery makes.
go to your rest; at night we'll feast together .
trip away; make no stay; meet me all by break of day .
i saw them not .
tyrrel ,  i mean those bastards in the tower .
i am thy father’s spirit ,  doomed for a certain term to walk the night and for the day confined to fast in fires ,  till the foul crimes done in my days of nature are burnt and purged away .
here’s his dry hand up and down .
you have little cause to say so .
make that good .
so you shall; and where the offence is let the great axe fall .
take up the sword again ,  or take up me .
and shall i couple hell ?
i am an ass; else it could never be but i should know her as well as she knows me .
you spend your passion on a misprised mood: i am not guilty of lysander's blood; nor is he dead ,  for aught that i can tell .
may't please your highness sit.
ay ,  marry ,  is't; but to my mind ,  though i am native here and to the manner born ,  it is a custom more honour'd in the breach than the observance .
i have brought him a present .
why then i think cassio's an honest man .
put up your sword .
it is offended .
no .
what shall become of this ?
you must have patience ,  madam .
no ,  none that thou hast wit enough to make .
thou hast got more hair on thy chin than dobbin my phill-horse has on his tail.
is in his retirement, marvellous distempered.
there are yet missing of your company some few odd lads that you remember not.
what noise?
effect it with some care ,  that he may prove more fond on her than she upon her love .
o most happy hour !
farewell .
is it true?
if there be any impediment ,  i pray you discover it .
a pestilence on him for a mad rogue!
and long live you to think so !
i prithee ,  good grumio ,  tell me ,  how goes the world ?
will the king hear this piece of work ?
most high ,  most mighty ,  and most puissant caesar ,  metellus cimber throws before thy seat an humble heart—     i must prevent thee ,  cimber .
there is a brief how many sports are ripe; make choice of which your highness will see first.
signior antonio, many a time and oft, in the rialto you have rated me about my moneys, and my usances: still have i borne it with a patient shrug, for sufferance is the badge of all our tribe: you call me,—misbeliever, cut-throat dog, and spet upon my jewish gaberdine, and all for use of that which is mine own.
i see a cherub that sees them .
hamlet return'd shall know you are come home.
nor have i seen more that i may call men than you ,  good friend ,  and my dear father .
i pray you and beseech you that you will .
well ,  we shall sift him .
well ,  sit we down ,  and let us hear barnardo speak of this .
i know my hour is come .
to adrian] how lush and lusty the grass looks !
will you shog off ?
now is the mural down between the two neighbors .
the deep of night is crept upon our talk, and nature must obey necessity, which we will niggard with a little rest.
i had a richard too ,  and thou did’st kill him; i had a rutland too; thou holp’st to kill him .
assist ,  good friends .
if he fail of that ,  he will have other means to cut you off .
i say amen ,  gonzalo .
the plainsong ”  is most just ,  for humors do abound .
o ,  forgive me my sins !
we have been up and down to seek him .
but shall't be shortly ?
i led them on in this distracted fear and left sweet pyramus translated there .
it then draws near the season wherein the spirit held his wont to walk .
how now!
what many men desire.—that many may be meant by the fool multitude, that choose by show, not learning more than the fond eye doth teach; which pries not to th' interior, but, like the martlet, builds in the weather on the outward wall, even in the force and road of casualty.
but who dare tell her so ?
madam ,  i had rather— i know your lady does not love her husband .
but wherefore could not i pronounce “amen”?
zounds ,  sir ,  you’re robbed !
what, the fair ophelia?
o my daughter ,  fled with a christian !
ha ,  portia ?
i think he bought his doublet in italy ,  his round hose in france ,  his bonnet in germany ,  and his behavior everywhere .
this is the very ecstasy of love ,  whose violent property fordoes itself and leads the will to desperate undertakings as oft as any passion under heaven that does afflict our natures .
why ,  the honest men .
i hear thou must ,  and nothing may prorogue it ,  on thursday next be married to this county .
diseases desperate grown by desperate appliance are relieved ,  or not at all .
alas ,  how is't with you ,  that you do bend your eye on vacancy ,  and with the incorporal air do hold discourse ?
then god be blessed ,  it is the blessèd sun .
to think ,  my lord ,  if you delight not in man ,  what lenten entertainment the players shall receive from you .
dun's the mouse ,  the constable's own word !
with him ?
good morrow, my good lords.
what's his weapon ?
exceedingly ,  my lord; it is very sultry ,  as 'twere—i can -  not tell how .
of very ill manner .
not now ,  sweet desdemona; some other time .
an apple ,  cleft in two ,  is not more twin than these two creatures .
the measure done, i'll watch her place of stand and, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
has he ,  masters ?
what doth this mean, my lord?
an i might live to see thee married once, i have my wish.
hold ,  hold ,  my heart ,  and you ,  my sinews ,  grow not instant old ,  but bear me stiffly up .
with what addition ?
we’ll send mark antony to the senate house ,  and he shall say you are not well today .
at thy request ,  monster ,  i will do reason ,  any reason .
it is the cry of women, my good lord.
i should first tell thee how the prince ,  claudio and my master ,  planted and placed and possessed by my master don john ,  saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter .
little ”  again ?
look ,  look !
i wish your ladyship all heart's content.
know the glove !
if i can fasten but one cup upon him ,  with that which he hath drunk tonight already ,  he'll be as full of quarrel and offense as my young mistress' dog .
now tell me how long you would have her after you have possessed her .
the meat was well ,  if you were so contented .
let the king have the letters i have sent ,  and repair thou to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death .
come ,  hamlet ,  come ,  and take this hand from me .
o woeful sympathy !
fare thee well .
master ,  if you do ,  expect spoon meat; or bespeak a long spoon .
but if you mouth it ,  as many of our players do ,  i had as lief the town - crier spoke my lines .
zounds ,  he dies !
i pray you ,  sir ,  what is he ?
waking] why ,  how now ?
that courtesy would be uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds .
ride, ride, messala.
and that were much he should ,  for he is given to sports ,  to wildness and much company .
but who comes here ?
no .
cast it off.
wouldst thou give 'em all ?
antonio, gratify this gentleman, for, in my mind, you are much bound to him.
thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
and that which spites me more than all these wants ,  he does it under name of perfect love ,  as who should say ,  if i should sleep or eat ,  'twere deadly sickness or else present death .
where's publius?
god in heaven bless her !
ring the alarum bell .
give me answer to it .
he will not say so .
as he shall smile ,  othello shall go mad; and his unbookish jealousy must construe poor cassio's smiles ,  gestures ,  and light behavior ,  quite in the wrong .
the moon shines bright:—in such a night as this, when the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees, and they did make no noise,—in such a night, troilus, methinks, mounted the trojan walls, and sigh'd his soul toward the grecian tents, where cressid lay that night.
i hate a drunken rogue .
so again, good night.
my lord ,  this is my daughter here asleep ,  and this lysander ,  this demetrius is ,  this helena ,  old nedar's helena .
ah ,  sirrah ,  by my fay ,  it waxes late; i'll to my rest .
alas the day, i never gave him cause!
iago beckons me; now he begins the story .
stand ,  ho !
now my spirit is going .
o ,  he is mad ,  laertes .
she's dead.
one word more ,  honest neighbors .
but say ,  my lord ,  it were not registered ,  methinks the truth should live from age to age ,  as ’twere retailed to all posterity ,  even to the general all - ending day .
there are the players.
i once did hold it ,  as our statists do ,  a baseness to write fair ,  and labour'd much how to forget that learning; but ,  sir ,  now it did me yeoman's service .
what’s your gracious pleasure ?
i’ll tell thee more of this another time .
be buried quick with her, and so will i.
who must hang them ?
to answer that ,  i should confess to you .
i wrote to you when rioting in alexandria .
that’s more than we know .
you will set cock - a - hoop !
all this is so ,  but what of this ,  my lord ?
what, not one hit?
let the door be lock'd .
or that there were such men whose heads stood in their breasts ?
here ,  madam .
very like a whale .
yet be content .
rogue ,  thou hast lived too long .
say that she rail; why then i’ll tell her plain she sings as sweetly as a nightingale .
no master ,  sir ,  but a poor man's son: his father ,  though i say it ,  is an honest exceeding poor man ,  and ,  god be thanked ,  well to live .
what should a man do but be merry ?
go bring the rabble ,  o'er whom i give thee power ,  here to this place .
the king comes here tonight .
mad call i it; for, to define true madness, what is't but to be nothing else but mad?
so is he mine, and in such bloody distance that every minute of his being thrusts against my near'st of life: and though i could with barefaced power sweep him from my sight and bid my will avouch it, yet i must not, for certain friends that are both his and mine, whose loves i may not drop, but wail his fall who i myself struck down.
she was false as water .
gentlemen all,—alas, what shall i say?
and why ,  my lady wisdom ?
mark'd ye his words ?
let them be hunted soundly .
i’ll after him ,  and see the event of this .
therefore i took your hands ,  but was indeed swayed from the point by looking down on caesar .
but life itself ,  my wife ,  and all the world are not with me esteemed above thy life .
most royal sir ,  fleance is ’scaped .
sir ,  'tis your brother cassius at the door ,  who doth desire to see you .
i am glad to see you well .
is't possible ?
ay .
heaven and earth!
o ,  make them joyful .
come ,  poor remains of friends ,  rest on this rock .
we would not die in that man’s company that fears his fellowship to die with us .
how if i answer no ?
fare you well .
how i have thought of this and of these times, i shall recount hereafter; for this present, i would not, so with love i might entreat you, be any further moved.
heaven make thee free of it .
some say the lark makes sweet division .
now art thou sociable ,  now art thou romeo; now art thou what thou art ,  by art as well as by nature .
here comes the countess .
i have it ready for thee .
i come to answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly ,  to swim ,  to dive into the fire ,  to ride on the curled clouds ,  to thy strong bidding task ariel and all his quality hast thou ,  spirit ,  performed to point the tempest that i bade thee ?
more of this hereafter .
beware the ides of march .
his daughter is to be brought by you to the supper .
ay .
then senseless ilium, seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash takes prisoner pyrrhus' ear.
well ,  madam ,  and in health .
ha !
it is a creature that dotes on cassio ,  as ’tis the strumpet’s plague to beguile many and be beguiled by one .
oh !
the juice of it on sleeping eye-lids laid will make or man or woman madly dote upon the next live creature that it sees.
that is the way to make her scorn you still .
therefore go with me .
here is a letter found in the pocket of the slain roderigo ,  and here another .
calmly ,  good laertes .
ay my lord, so you will not o'errule me to a peace.
to a nunnery ,  go .
o ,  think'st thou we shall ever meet again ?
the sky ,  it seems ,  would pour down stinking pitch ,  but that the sea ,  mounting to th' welkin’s cheek ,  dashes the fire out .
he’ll say ’twas done cowardly ,  when he wakes .
his wits are gone .
lie with her ?
i charge thee ,  be not thou more grieved than i am .
i saw her laid low in her kindred's vault and presently took post to tell it you.
god restore you to health !
moblèd queen ”  is good .
no ,  fair princess .
but are they ,  ariel ,  safe ?
sheathe your dagger .
no, let's come in!
the terms of our estate may not endure hazard so near us as doth hourly grow out of his brows .
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts ,  shall be to him shortly as acerb as the coloquintida .
be not afraid ,  though you do see me weaponed .
was ever match clapped up so suddenly ?
no ,  by no means .
honour, riches, marriage-blessing, long continuance, and increasing, hourly joys be still upon you!
i do not understand .
now ,  afore god ,  i am so vexed that every part about me quivers .
what think you on ’t ?
there's no offence ,  my lord .
i will to egypt .
shame come to romeo !
young son, it argues a distempered head so soon to bid good morrow to thy bed.
i'll warrant him for drowning ,  though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unstanched wench .
i hear their drum .
it is your music ,  madam ,  of the house .
let’s take leave of him .
when ?
now sir ,  this granted—as it is a most pregnant and unforced position—who stands so eminently in the degree of this fortune as cassio does ?
o my lord !
why ,  get you gone !
he’ll make your paris louvre shake for it ,  were it the mistress court of mighty europe .
methinks i do .
come ,  come away .
what wife?
and so ,  my lord ,  adieu .
i'll have grounds more relative than this .
is all things ready for the royal time ?
there on the ground ,  with his own tears made drunk .
so ,  uncle ,  there you are .
good peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the fairer face of the two.
let me have audience for a word or two .
lives he ?
my lord high constable ,  the english lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents .
but it is doubtful yet whether caesar will come forth today or no, for he is superstitious grown of late, quite from the main opinion he held once of fantasy, of dreams and ceremonies.
what is this?
i hoped thou shouldst have been my hamlet's wife; i thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid, and not have strew'd thy grave.
when we were boys ,  who would believe that there were mountaineers dewlapped like bulls ,  whose throats had hanging at ’em wallets of flesh ?
i would my father look'd but with my eyes .
i loved him ,  friend— no father his son dearer .
she never yet was foolish that was fair; for even her folly help'd her to an heir.
ring the alarum bell !
good my lord ,  enter here .
sailors, my lord, they say; i saw them not.
your cause of sorrow must not be measured by his worth ,  for then it hath no end .
nay ,  you must name his name ,  and half his face must be seen through the lion’s neck .
i say gudday ,  captain fluellen .
if you be well pleased with this and hold your fortune for your bliss ,  turn you where your lady is and claim her with a loving kiss .  ”
so, prithee, go with me.
you appeared to me but as a common man .
to know my errand ,  madam .
speak.
we cannot call her winds and waters sighs and tears .
past all expressing .
nothing ,  my lord .
she hath forsworn to love ,  and in that vow do i live dead that live to tell it now .
they are entirely welcome .
i’ll tell thee what ,  prince: a college of wit - crackers cannot flout me out of my humor .
take the fool away .
thank you .
we will greet the time .
i must take out the work ?
take thy fair hour ,  laertes .
i could teach you how to choose right, but then i am forsworn; so will i never be: so may you miss me; but if you do, you'll make me wish a sin, that i had been forsworn.
where is he ?
legged like a man, and his fins like arms!
so said ,  so done ,  is well .
to me you speak not.
here's goodly gear!
as if that name ,  shot from the deadly level of a gun ,  did murder her ,  as that name’s cursed hand murdered her kinsman .
the knave counterfeits well .
i pray you watch about signior leonato’s door ,  for the wedding being there tomorrow ,  there is a great coil tonight .
have you not set lysander, as in scorn, to follow me and praise my eyes and face?
in the most high and palmy state of rome ,  a little ere the mightiest julius fell ,  the graves stood tenantless ,  and the sheeted dead did squeak and gibber in the roman streets; as stars with trains of fire and dews of blood ,  disasters in the sun; and the moist star ,  upon whose influence neptune's empire stands was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse .
who’s there ?
i will say so.
here is thy fee .
if it will not be ,  i’ll leave you .
here’s that ,  i warrant you ,  will pay them all .
will you know them then ?
ay ,  past all surgery .
believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
fie on't!
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses; nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses.
what means this shouting ?
thy smiles become thee well .
no ,  i will not cast away my physic but on those that are sick .
madam .
if you were civil and knew courtesy, you would not do me thus much injury.
i am so much a fool ,  should i stay longer it would be my disgrace and your discomfort .
is ’t true ?
do you hear ,  you minion ?
you say you do not know the lady’s mind .
why ask you ?
i am glad of it ,  for now i shall have reason to show the love and duty that i bear you with franker spirit .
say it ,  othello .
that is the chain ,  sir ,  which you had of me .
as ignorant as dirt !
was ’t you he rescued ?
a very dishonest paltry boy ,  and more a coward than a hare .
what say you ?
up ,  sword ,  and know thou a more horrid hent .
marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
but, how?
do you see ,  gentlemen ?
this is practice ,  gloucester .
thy noble shape is but a form of wax digressing from the valour of a man; thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury ,  killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish; thy wit ,  that ornament to shape and love ,  misshapen in the conduct of them both ,  like powder in a skilless soldier's flask ,  is set afire by thine own ignorance ,  and thou dismemb'red with thine own defence .
our sport shall be to take what they mistake; and what poor duty cannot do ,  noble respect takes it in might ,  not merit .
here ,  sirrah grumio .
true ,  madam .
touched you the bastardy of edward’s children ?
shall no man else be touch'd but only caesar ?
she wished she had not heard it ,  yet she wished that heaven had made her such a man .
never ,  till caesar’s three and thirty wounds be well avenged ,  or till another caesar have added slaughter to the sword of traitors .
the one the other poisoned for my sake ,  and after slew herself .
i would not hear your enemy say so ,  nor shall you do my ear that violence to make it truster of your own report against yourself .
for my part ,  i had rather bear with you than bear you .
ah ,  juliet ,  if the measure of thy joy be heaped like mine ,  and that thy skill be more to blazon it ,  then sweeten with thy breath this neighbor air ,  and let rich music’s tongue unfold the imagined happiness that both receive in either by this dear encounter .
tis very much .
but virtue ,  as it never will be moved ,  though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven ,  so lust ,  though to a radiant angel link'd ,  will sate itself in a celestial bed and prey on garbage .
if thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him ,  i spurn thee like a cur out of my way .
the princes both make high account of you—  i know they do ,  and i have well deserved it .
despair ,  and die !
to be thus is nothing, but to be safely thus.
poor turlygod !  ”   “ poor tom !  ” — that’s something yet .
did heaven look on ,  and would not take their part ?
i’ll bring my wood home faster .
you are welcome.
but hast thou yet latched the athenian’s eyes with the love juice ,  as i did bid thee do ?
i'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon .
to suckle fools and chronicle small beer .
at least two glasses .
do so, good messala.
honest ,  ay ,  honest .
fine apparition !
what is your pleasure ,  madam ?
what is a traitor?
the age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe . —how long hast thou been a grave - maker ?
my lord bassanio ,  since you have found antonio ,  we two will leave you .
to prayers, to prayers!
belike this show imports the argument of the play.
will you be prick'd in number of our friends ,  or shall we on ,  and not depend on you ?
the skies are painted with unnumbered sparks .
where is thy power ,  then ,  to beat him back ?
by my life i do ,  which i tender dearly ,  though i say i am a magician .
whom should i knock ?
and art thou changed ?
stay but a little, i will come again.
how fine my master is !
take your time .
a very tall man!
is ’t possible ?
here ,  sweet lord ,  at your service .
well ,  the beginning that is dead and buried .
the very best at a beast ,  my lord ,  that e'er i saw .
so .
how now ,  my friend ,  why dost thou look so pale ?
sir ,  the queen .
but ,  othello ,  speak .
well ,  bawd i’ll turn ,  and something lean to cutpurse of quick hand .
do not fear our person .
i can swim like a duck ,  i’ll be sworn .
which their keepers call a lightning before death.
but with a rearward following tybalt's death ,  ‘romeo is banished’— to speak that word is father ,  mother ,  tybalt ,  romeo ,  juliet ,  all slain ,  all dead .
we have none such, sir.
infect her beauty ,  you fen - sucked fogs drawn by the powerful sun ,  to fall and blister !
over hill ,  over dale ,  thorough bush ,  thorough brier ,  over park ,  over pale ,  thorough flood ,  thorough fire ,  i do wander every where ,  swifter than the moon's sphere; and i serve the fairy queen ,  to dew her orbs upon the green .
look to the queen there ,  ho !
come ,  come away .
i remember the first time ever caesar put it on; 'twas on a summer's evening ,  in his tent ,  that day he overcame the nervii .
hark ,  now i hear them .
what would my lord ?
you have forgot the will i told you of.
the king comes here tonight.
i am quickly ill ,  and well ,  so antony loves .
if you grow foul with me ,  pistol ,  i will scour you with my rapier ,  as i may ,  in fair terms .
who goes there ,  ha ?
good my lord!
talk no more .
honest ?
and ,  being done ,  thus wall away doth go .
your part in her you could not keep from death ,  but heaven keeps his part in eternal life .
what you have said i will consider; what you have to say i will with patience hear ,  and find a time both meet to hear and answer such high things .
demetrius is a worthy gentleman .
the question of his death is enrolled in the capitol .
quite dumb ?
none of noble sort would so offend a virgin, and extort a poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
kill men i' the dark!
go thou to juliet ,  help to deck up her .
sometimes from her eyes i did receive fair speechless messages .
ah ,  tranio ,  what a cruel father’s he !
why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world like a colossus, and we petty men walk under his huge legs and peep about to find ourselves dishonorable graves.
must i remember ?
my lord, i have remembrances of yours that i have longed long to redeliver.
the oars were silver ,  which to the tune of flutes kept stroke ,  and made the water which they beat to follow faster ,  as amorous of their strokes .
in time we hate that which we often fear .
not so ,  sir ,  i do care for something .
he did in some sort ,  indeed ,  handle women ,  but then he was rheumatic ,  and talked of the whore of babylon .
how is ’t with me when every noise appals me ?
that would be scann'd .
o me !
sing me now asleep; then to your offices, and let me rest.
there's a fearful point!
sblood ,  there is something in this more than natural ,  if philosophy could find it out .
well ,  again .
blest pudding !
the rabble call him lord; and, as the world were now but to begin, antiquity forgot, custom not known— the ratifiers and props of every word— they cry 'choose we!
a velvet dish !
i shall be reconciled to him again .
virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes.
behold !
oh ,  now ,  who will behold the royal captain of this ruined band
by this hand ,  i am .
it is to be all made of faith and service ,  and so am i for phoebe .
and so i thank you for your good counsel.
you are my true and honorable wife ,  as dear to me as are the ruddy drops that visit my sad heart .
o, i am fortune's fool!
madam ,  they are not yet; but there is come a messenger before ,  to signify their coming .
the moon shines bright .
tis time to part .
stain'd with blood?
o, now forever farewell the tranquil mind!
my little spirit ,  see ,  sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me .
he did comply ,  sir ,  with his dug before he sucked it .
how absolute the knave is!
and how doth she ?
at home, my lord.
o noble caesar !
the april’s in her eyes; it is love’s spring ,  and these the showers to bring it on .
the law !
one that was a woman ,  sir; but ,  rest her soul ,  she's dead .
i pray, sir, can you read?
why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him?
who talks within there ?
i would i had your bond; for i perceive a weak bond holds you; i'll not trust your word .
i had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace ,  and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any .
hang him ,  jack !
o ,  thou art wise; 'tis certain .
my ears have yet not drunk a hundred words of that tongue's utterance ,  yet i know the sound .
we do, my lord.
he is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the circumference.
no ,  my lord .
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses; nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses .
and this may help to thicken other proofs that do demonstrate thinly.
rather than so ,  come ,  fate ,  into the list ,  and champion me to the utterance !
stay ,  though thou kill me ,  sweet demetrius .
i pray god he be not ,  i say .
worse and worse .
then gave i her (so tutored by my art) a sleeping potion; which so took effect as i intended ,  for it wrought on her the form of death .
there is so much that thou wilt kill me straight .
i make all use of it ,  for i use it only .
which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream .
now lies he there, and none so poor to do him reverence.
draw the curtains—so ,  so ,  so .
when i desire their leave that i might pity him ,  they took from me the use of mine own house ,  charged me on pain of their perpetual displeasure neither to speak of him ,  entreat for him ,  nor any way sustain him .
why ,  now i see there's mettle in thee; and even from this instant do build on thee a better opinion than ever before .
when prospero is destroyed .
i will ,  and know her mind early to - morrow; to - night she's mew'd up to her heaviness .
why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so.
souls and bodies hath he divorced three ,  and his incensement at this moment is so implacable that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death and sepulchre .
i charge you by the law ,  whereof you are a well - deserving pillar ,  proceed to judgment .
the trumpery in my house ,  go bring it hither for stale to catch these thieves .
what wouldst thou have ,  laertes ?
i hate the moor ,  and it is thought abroad that ’twixt my sheets he’s done my office .
who is ’t that hinders you ?
tis thought that richmond is their admiral; and there they hull ,  expecting but the aid of buckingham to welcome them ashore .
she is not ,  madam .
how now ,  spirit ?
thanks ,  rosencrantz and gentle guildenstern .
with the same 'havior that your passion bears goes on my master’s grief .
pardon me ,  dear rosalind .
comes not that blood as modest evidence to witness simple virtue ?
blest fig'send !
who ,  i ?
and from my soul too; else beshrew them both .
will either of you bear me a challenge to him ?
where’s seleucus ?
forgive me my foul murder ?
no ,  not an oath .
tis not to make me jealous to say my wife is fair ,  feeds well ,  loves company ,  is free of speech ,  sings ,  plays ,  and dances well; where virtue is ,  these are more virtuous .
near to her close and consecrated bower ,  while she was in her dull and sleeping hour ,  a crew of patches ,  rude mechanicals ,  that work for bread upon athenian stalls ,  were met together to rehearse a play ,  intended for great theseus' nuptial - day .
hear my soul speak .
captain of our fairy band ,  helena is here at hand ,  and the youth ,  mistook by me pleading for a lover's fee; shall we their fond pageant see ?
come ,  antony ,  and young octavius ,  come ,  revenge yourselves alone on cassius ,  for cassius is aweary of the world: hated by one he loves; braved by his brother; check'd like a bondman; all his faults observed ,  set in a notebook ,  learn'd and conn'd by rote ,  to cast into my teeth .
let’s have no more of this ,  let’s to our affairs . —forgive us our sins ! —gentlemen ,  let’s look to our business .
i must be one of these same dumb wise men, for gratiano never lets me speak.
o, insupportable!
forever and forever farewell ,  cassius .
a worthy fool !
beware of entrance to a quarrel ,  but being in ,  bear ’t that th' opposèd may beware of thee .
i have watched ere now all night for lesser cause ,  and ne'er been sick .
i thank thee ,  master .
good morrow ,  brother bedford .
we fat all creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for maggots.
i will not rise unless your highness hear me .
yes, sooth; and so do you.
a match !
i prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow; and i with my long nails will dig thee pignuts, show thee a jay's nest, and instruct thee how to snare the nimble marmoset, i'll bring thee to clustering filberts, and sometimes i'll get thee young sea-mews from the rock.
i stumbled when i saw .
there's ne'er a villain dwelling in all denmark but he's an arrant knave .
in most profound earnest ,  and ,  i’ll warrant you ,  for the love of beatrice .
something is rotten in the state of denmark.
but as ’tis, we cannot miss him: he does make our fire, fetch in our wood, and serves in offices that profit us.
the day will come that thou shalt wish for me to help thee curse that poisonous bunch - backed toad .
for i am all the subjects that you have ,  which first was mine own king ,  and here you sty me in this hard rock ,  whiles you do keep from me the rest o‘th’ island .
this murderous shaft that’s shot hath not yet lighted ,  and our safest way is to avoid the aim .
o, behold, the riches of the ship is come on shore!
let the garden door be shut ,  and leave me to my hearing .
the doors are broke .
hand in hand with fairy grace will we sing and bless this place .
then hear me ,  gracious sovereign ,  and you peers that owe yourselves ,  your lives ,  and services to this imperial throne .
give me your hand .
i'll see it done .
villainy ,  villainy ,  villainy !
he hath ,  my lord .
tut ,  there’s life in ’t ,  man .
i thought thou hadst been resolute .
by this kind of chase i should hate him ,  for my father hated his father dearly .
it is not, nor it cannot come to, good.
this house is little .
what were i best to say ?
had not that been as proper ?
a pickaxe and a spade ,  a spade ,  for and a shrouding sheet; o ,  a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet .
tis true .
my next is ‘most fair pyramus.’ heigh-ho!
to gonzalo] wherefore this what's the matter ?
they have said their prayers ,  and they stay for death .
be clamorous ,  and leap all civil bounds ,  rather than make unprofited return .
come hither ,  captain .
i remember when i was in love i broke my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for coming a -  night to jane smile .
we talk here in the public haunt of men .
come, sir, i am for you.
why, look you there!
give me your hand .
i will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past .
it is a reeling world indeed ,  my lord ,  and i believe will never stand upright till richard wear the garland of the realm .
thus high ,  by thy advice and thy assistance is king richard seated .
but let me hear the letter of your friend .
i will ,  sir .
o thou othello, that wert once so good, what shall be said to thee?
you shall not stir out of your house today .
shall i attend your grace ?
what's he that was not born of woman?
a fish: he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish-like smell; a kind of not- of-the-newest poor-john.
come ,  brands ,  ho ,  firebrands .
i’ll back to the duke of gloucester and tell him so .
i will set down what comes from her ,  to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly .
oh ,  speak of that .
but this is most falliable ,  the worm’s an odd worm .
how long hath he been there ?
i have as much of this in art as you, but yet my nature could not bear it so.
thou canst not choose but know who i am .
come now ,  a roundel and a fairy song; then ,  for the third part of a minute ,  hence: some to kill cankers in the musk - rose buds; some war with rere - mice for their leathern wings ,  to make my small elves coats; and some keep back the clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders at our quaint spirits .
i shall remember.
she bids you come to her .
why, would not you?
i’ll tell you ,  there is good men porn at monmouth .
what shall we do else ?
die and be damned ,  and  it is well .
welcome, iago; we must to the watch.
in cash ,  most justly paid .
do we all holy rites .
prithee ,  say on .
shall i be married then tomorrow morning ?
i cannot tell .
canst thou bring me to the party?
o antony ,  beg not your death of us .
never make known what you have seen to-night.
o good sir toby ,  hold !
to adrian] ay .
fare you well ,  my dove !
come ,  dromio ,  come ,  these jests are out of season .
but i will punish home .
o conspiracy ,  shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night when evils are most free ?
come, seeling night, scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day, and with thy bloody and invisible hand cancel and tear to pieces that great bond which keeps me pale!
treason !
prince john is this morning secretly stolen away .
i will not stay to offend you .
draws.
pray you ,  no more of this .
at first the infant ,  mewling and puking in the nurse’s arms .
the air bites shrewdly; it is very cold .
because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians ,  you'll have your daughter covered with a barbary horse; you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll have coursers for cousins ,  and gennets for germans .
by my troth ,  well met .
i know a wench of excellent discourse ,  pretty and witty ,  wild and yet ,  too ,  gentle .
i am sped .
if that his majesty would aught with us ,  we shall express our duty in his eye; and let him know so .
give me a living reason she's disloyal .
before the eyes of both our armies here ,  which should perceive nothing but love from us ,  let us not wrangle .
what is he ,  biondello ?
begone .
o ye gods, render me worthy of this noble wife!
i’ll entreat for thee .
oh ,  she doth teach the torches to burn bright !
yes ,  it doth shine that night .
i found it in my chamber ,  and he himself confessed but even now that there he dropped it for a special purpose which wrought to his desire .
nothing in his life became him like the leaving it .
be patient .
what ,  man !
ay ,  ay .
what was he that you followed with your sword ?
i would thou wert so happy by thy stay to hear true shrift .
well ,  i conceive .
i have a head ,  sir ,  that will find out logs and never trouble peter for the matter .
if you call me jephthah ,  my lord ,  i have a daughter that i love passing well .
one .
i never was nor never will be false .
this by calphurnia’s dream is signified .
did you send to him ,  sir ?
thou pray'st not well .
i do fear the people choose caesar for their king.
with all my heart i’ll gossip at this feast .
let us haste to hear it, and call the noblest to the audience.
all which ,  sir ,  though i most powerfully and potently believe ,  yet i hold it not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself ,  sir ,  shall grow old as i am if ,  if like a crab ,  you could go backward .
here lies the county slain; and juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead, who here hath lain this two days buried.
to ariel] thou shalt be free [to ariel] thou shalt be free as mountain winds; but then exactly do all points of my command.
o me !
a greater power than we can contradict hath thwarted our intents.
be not disturbed with my infirmity .
i will so .
but let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my trial ,  wherein ,  if i be foiled ,  there is but one shamed that was never gracious; if killed ,  but one dead that was willing to be so .
nurse, come back again; i have remember'd me, thou shalt hear our counsel.
you may be rightly just, whatever i shall think.
donalbain .
toward peloponnesus are they fled .
show .
his beard was grizzled, no?
what’s his fault ?
marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower!
your grace hath laid the odds o' th' weaker side .
it is as easy as lying .
o ,  'tis foul in her .
tis pity that thou liv’st to walk where any honest men resort .
nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some instruction.
if he were dead ,  you’d weep for him .
nay ,  but he prated and spoke such scurvy and provoking terms against your honor that ,  with the little godliness i have ,  i did full hard forbear him .
i must to the barber’s ,  monsieur ,  for methinks i am marvelous hairy about the face .
sir ?
tis for the head .
but stay, o spite!
it is not possible .
o margaret ,  margaret ,  now thy heavy curse is lighted on poor hastings' wretched head .
i do beseech you that i may speak with you ,  o ,  good my lord !
i will hear cassius and compare their reasons, when severally we hear them rendered.
there are ways to recover the general again.
down with the topmast !
therefore thy earliness doth me assure thou art uprous'd with some distemp'rature; or if not so, then here i hit it right— our romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
you are gentlemen of brave mettle .
we ,  ignorant of ourselves ,  beg often our own harms ,  which the wise powers deny us for our good ,  so find we profit by losing of our prayers .
the fool will stay .
their residence, both in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
oh ,  thou didst then ne'er love so heartily .
say it, othello.
who now the price of his dear blood doth owe ?
that did i ,  my lord ,  and was accounted a good actor .
gentlemen ,  for shame !
will you dine with me tomorrow?
alas ,  poor harry of england !
call the clotpoll back .
i almost die for food ,  and let me have it .
if i can catch him once upon the hip, i will feed fat the ancient grudge i bear him.
then ,  window ,  let day in ,  and let life out .
you may do your will ,  but he's a tried and valiant soldier .
shut that ,  and ’twill out at the keyhole .
where’s the queen ?
content with hermia ?
where is he gone ?
i do not set my life at a pin's fee; and for my soul, what can it do to that, being a thing immortal as itself?
what of that?
romeo ,  come forth; come forth ,  thou fearful man .
o lord, they fight!
faith ,  stay here this night .
if you poison us ,  do we not die ?
sweet phoebe ,  pity me .
discern'st thou aught in that ?
nay ,  but to live in the rank sweat of an enseamed bed ,  stew'd in corruption ,  honeying and making love over the nasty sty !
a gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips— not body's death, but body's banishment.
no ,  let me not .
the other motive why to a public count i might not go is the great love the general gender bear him, who, dipping all his faults in their affection, would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone, convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows, too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind, would have reverted to my bow again, and not where i had aim'd them.
for monsieur malvolio ,  let me alone with him .
the best ?
o most false love !
i will then give it you soundly.
away ,  old man .
a thursday be it then .
yes ,  faith ,  will i ,  fridays and saturdays and all .
help, ho!
i shifted him away, and laid good ‘scuse upon your ecstasy; bade him anon return and here speak with me; the which he promised.
you should not have believed me; for virtue cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it .
let’s ha ’t ,  good soldier .
sir ,  his definement suffers no perdition in you; though ,  i know ,  to divide him inventorially would dizzy the arithmetic of memory ,  and yet but yaw neither ,  in respect of his quick sail .
fall not a tear ,  i say .
but if you fail ,  without more speech ,  my lord ,  you must be gone from hence immediately .
the poor monster's my subject, and he shall not suffer indignity.
caesar is touched .
father ,  in .
why should i ,  mother ?
he knows not yet of his honorable fortune .
it should seem then ,  that dobbin's tail grows backward: i am sure he had more hair of his tail ,  than i have of my face ,  when i last saw him .
roderigo kill'd ?
caesar’s better parts shall be crowned in brutus !
that’s as we list to grace him .
but one, poor one, one poor and loving child, but one thing to rejoice and solace in, and cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
be thou my witness that, against my will, as pompey was, am i compell'd to set upon one battle all our liberties.
hath there been such a time—i would fain know that— that i have positively said ,   “ 'tis so ,  ”  when it proved otherwise ?
no jutty, frieze, buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle; where they most breed and haunt, i have observed the air is delicate.
feed and regard him not .
try what repentance can.
and ,  to sink in it ,  should you burden love— too great oppression for a tender thing .
by my fay ,  a goodly nap .
pale, or red?
you are not wood ,  you are not stones ,  but men .
where is my father and my mother, nurse?
the world is not thy friend nor the world’s law .
the wager?
well ,  go to ,  i will .
i speak not as in absolute fear of you .
but till that time i do receive your offer'd love like love ,  and will not wrong it .
filthy hags !
went’st not thou to her for a purse of ducats ?
now is the day we long have lookèd for .
i'll believe as soon this whole earth may be bored ,  and that the moon may through the centre creep and so displease her brother's noontide with the antipodes .
where?
it is but change ,  titinius ,  for octavius is overthrown by noble brutus' power ,  as cassius' legions are by antony .
sir ,  in my heart there was a kind of fighting that would not let me sleep .
here, peter quince.
love give me strength!
neither good nor bad .
let him come when he will ,  i will deny thee nothing .
free from the bondage you are in ,  messala .
his breeding ,  sir ,  hath been at my charge .
go to ,  then .
villain am i none .
madam ,  with all my heart .
my husband is on earth, my faith in heaven.
i dare no longer stay .
when these mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand comes the master and main exercise, the incorporate conclusion.
it well appears.
susan and she (god rest all christian souls !
well then ,  the peace which you before so urged lies in his answer .
if thou beest as poor for a subject as he’s for a king ,  thou'rt poor enough .
but ,  sir ,  here comes your boy .
thieves !
he is slain.
good my lord !
where's your father ?
such comfort as do lusty young men feel when well - appareled april on the heel of limping winter treads .
my life is run his compass .
i prithee ,  let me bring thee where crabs grow; and i with my long nails will dig thee pignuts ,  show thee a jay's nest ,  and instruct thee how to snare the nimble marmoset ,  i'll bring thee to clustering filberts ,  and sometimes i'll get thee young sea - mews from the rock .
i left no ring with her .
sit down awhile, and let us once again assail your ears, that are so fortified against our story, what we two nights have seen.
what conquest brings he home?
ay, smile upon her, do; i will gyve thee in thine own courtship.
my sickness grows upon me .
farewell.
ay, my lord, and of calveskins too.
they met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together.
your brother the bastard is fled from messina .
alas, what cry is that?
no, not till thursday.
today the lords you talked of are beheaded .
will you laugh me asleep, for i am very heavy?
in his lawless fit, behind the arras hearing something stir, whips out his rapier, cries 'a rat, a rat!
unreal mockery, hence!
why ,  the night gone by .
tybalt, my cousin!
let’s do so .
most certain .
you have displaced the mirth ,  broke the good meeting ,  with most admired disorder .
what ,  is my daughter gone to friar laurence ?
inquire the jew’s house out .
my news i might have told hereafter .
some man or other must present wall; and let him have some plaster ,  or some loam ,  or some rough - cast about him ,  to signify wall; and let him hold his fingers thus ,  and through that cranny shall pyramus and thisbe whisper .
pat ,  pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place for our rehearsal .
god shield i should disturb devotion!
troth ,  no ,  no more than reason .
hail ,  brave friend !
welcome hither.
dismiss me .
my will ,  not all the world .
he hath twice or thrice cut cupid’s bow - string ,  and the little hangman dare not shoot at him .
tis but one cast away ,  and so ,  come ,  death .
this is that very mab that plats the manes of horses in the night and bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs ,  which once untangled much misfortune bodes this is the hag ,  when maids lie on their backs ,  that presses them and learns them first to bear ,  making them women of good carriage .
are you content to stay ?
oh ,  fie upon thee ,  slanderer !
last night of all ,  when yond same star that’s westward from the pole had made his course t' illume that part of heaven where now it burns ,  marcellus and myself ,  the bell then beating one— peace ,  break thee off .
what wilt thou do for her ?
how now ?
good my lord ,  enter .
thou liest .
look to your house ,  your daughter ,  and your bags !
they that have done this deed are honorable .
it will but skin and film the ulcerous place ,  whiles rank corruption ,  mining all within ,  infects unseen .
went they not quickly ,  i should die with laughing .
what love could press lysander from my side ?
your sister is the better soldier .
come ,  come ,  you’re drunk .
i drunk !
mistress ,  dispatch you with your safest haste ,  and get you from our court .
doctor ,  the thanes fly from me .
master ,  for my hand ,  both our inventions meet and jump in one .
your dinner ,  and the generous islanders by you invited ,  do attend your presence .
who is next ?
you mistake ,  sir ,  you mistake ,  sir .
i will set down what comes from her ,  to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly .
madam !
therefore ,  out of thy long - experienc'd time ,  give me some present counsel; or ,  behold ,  'twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife shall play the umpire ,  arbitrating that which the commission of thy years and art could to no issue of true honour bring .
what will you do ?
this night i hold an old accustomed feast ,  whereto i have invited many a guest such as i love .
he is not the flower of courtesy ,  but ,  i'll warrant him ,  as gentle as a lamb .
please't your highness to grace us with your royal company ?
nay ,  i prithee ,  put on this gown and this beard .
i am glad to see you mad .
a most scurvy monster!
neighbors ,  god speed .
the clerk is answered .
my lord ,  most humbly on my knee i beg the leading of the vaward .
adieu ,  brave moor ,  use desdemona well .
so guildenstern and rosencrantz go to ’t .
then hie you hence to friar laurence’ cell; there stays a husband to make you a wife .
and hath given countenance to his speech ,  my lord ,  with almost all the holy vows of heaven .
do you find some occasion to anger cassio ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or tainting his discipline ,  or from what other course you please ,  which the time shall more favorably minister .
by the world, i think my wife be honest, and think she is not; i think that thou art just, and think thou art not.
it is worth the pains .
so, good night unto you all.
then if he says he loves you, it fits your wisdom so far to believe it as he in his particular act and place may give his saying deed; which is no further than the main voice of denmark goes withal.
how ?
well, my lord.
for heaven’s sake ,  help me !
a good persuasion; therefore, hear me, hermia.
what mercy can you render him ,  antonio ?
i dare no longer stay.
be brisk 0awhile ,  and the longer liver take all .
though in the trade of war i have slain men, yet do i hold it very stuff o' the conscience to do no contrived murder.
god make incision in thee; thou art raw .
is banquo gone from court?
my father had a daughter loved a man as it might be ,  perhaps ,  were i a woman ,  i should your lordship .
these fellows have some soul ,  and such a one do i profess myself .
make assay .
i have forsworn his bed and company .
my curses on her !
i needs must wake her .
all hail ,  macbeth !
tis true, most worthy signior; the duke's in council, and your noble self, i am sure, is sent for.
more validity ,  more honorable state ,  more courtship lives in carrion flies than romeo .
rightly to be great is not to stir without great argument, but greatly to find quarrel in a straw when honour's at the stake.
and then came pyramus .
here ,  my lord .
have i caught thee ?
your wives ,  your daughters ,  your matrons ,  and your maids could not fill up the cistern of my lust ,  and my desire all continent impediments would o'erbear that did oppose my will .
and never could maintain his part but in the force of his will .
then lord have mercy on me !
how does hamlet ?
here’s that shall drive some of them to a noncome .
thou still hast been the father of good news.
happy is hermia ,  wheresoe'er she lies ,  for she hath blessèd and attractive eyes .
what might you think ?
thou never shalt hear herald anymore .
what, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?
how have you made division of yourself ?
and here’s another ,  writ in my cousin’s hand ,  stol'n from her pocket ,  containing her affection unto benedick .
and shylock ,  for his own part ,  knew the bird was fledged; and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam .
thou pray'st not well.
yes ,  that you did ,  sir ,  and forswore it too .
none but friends .
ready.
why grow the branches when the root is gone ?
sir ,  grieve not you .
to-morrow will i send.
are they return'd ?
the king ,  the king's to blame .
no, by heaven.
ho ,  open the door .
i'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again.
we still have known thee for a holy man.
that which hath made them drunk hath made me bold .
o night ,  which ever art when day is not !
my ever gentle cousin ,  welcome hither .
and ,  as the jest did glance away from me ,  'tis ten to one it maimed you two outright .
o ,  tell me ,  friar ,  tell me ,  in what vile part of this anatomy doth my name lodge ?
have at thee ,  coward !
not i ,  believe me .
ay .
beautiful tyrant!
we have met with foes that strike beside us .
what, now?
for ,  sir ,  it is as sure as you are roderigo ,  were i the moor ,  i would not be iago .
why ,  ay .
this is some priory .
why ,  for that too .
fair portia's counterfeit ?
do you doubt that ?
now i'll tell you without asking.
trust not trebonius .
nay ,  in all confidence ,  he's not for rhodes .
i know not, sweet.
is that the uttermost?
if you tickle us, do we not laugh?
as caesar loved me, i weep for him; as he was fortunate, i rejoice at it; as he was valiant, i honor him; but as he was ambitious, i slew him.
o brother montague ,  give me thy hand .
look you here ,  here is himself ,  marr'd ,  as you see ,  with traitors .
here's cassio hurt by villains .
hail ,  mortal .
love takes the meaning in love's conference.
or i'll cry a match.
bespeak him a fortnight before . —i will have the heart of him if he forfeit ,  for were he out of venice i can make what merchandise i will . —go ,  go ,  tubal ,  and meet me at our synagogue .
will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher by the ears ?
for i ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
cheer your heart .
give me a living reason she’s disloyal .
murder!
if not ,  ’tis true this parting was well made .
this avarice sticks deeper ,  grows with more pernicious root than summer - seeming lust ,  and it hath been the sword of our slain kings .
make haste ,  make haste .
ay ,  and brought off the field .
not yet .
to adrian] methinks our garments are now as fresh as [to adrian] methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in afric, at the marriage of the king's fair daughter claribel to the king of tunis.
although i hate her ,  i’ll not harm her so .
when marcus brutus grows so covetous to lock such rascal counters from his friends ,  be ready ,  gods ,  with all your thunderbolts ,  dash him to pieces !
this would have seemed a period to such as love not sorrow ,  but another to amplify too much would make much more and top extremity .
the gates of mercy shall be all shut up ,  and the fleshed soldier ,  rough and hard of heart ,  in liberty of bloody hand ,  shall range with conscience wide as hell ,  mowing like grass your fresh fair virgins and your flow'ring infants .
you seem to understand me, by each at once her choppy finger laying upon her skinny lips.
tis good.
look you ,  sir ,  inquire me first what danskers are in paris ,  and how ,  and who ,  what means ,  and where they keep ,  what company ,  at what expense; and finding by this encompassment and drift of question that they do know my son ,  come you more nearer than your particular demands will touch it .
you will to't ,  sir ,  really .
yet say i ,  he is in love .
but soft!
do not rise yet .
and he did bid us follow to the temple .
my lord ,  that would dishonor him !
he goes forth gallantly .
dead .
nay ,  he will answer the letter’s master ,  how he dares ,  being dared .
what have you done ,  my lord ,  with the dead body ?
speak the word along.
o my soul's joy !
this casket threatens: men that hazard all do it in hope of fair advantages: a golden mind stoops not to shows of dross; i'll then nor give, nor hazard, aught for lead.
thou told’st me they were stol'n unto this wood .
farewell .
i come to fetch you to the senate - house .
rapier and dagger .
lord ,  lord !
she phoebes me .
o inhuman dog !
he waxes desperate with imagination.
they have letters for him.
it must appear in other ways than words ,  therefore i scant this breathing courtesy .
and bad'st me bury love.
my ears have yet not drunk a hundred words of that tongue's utterance, yet i know the sound.
where is thy husband now ?
i am for you.
my dearest coz ,  i pray you school yourself .
farewell .
i mean ,  she is the list of my voyage .
well ,  happiness to their sheets !
she says enough; yet she's a simple bawd that cannot say as much .
who’s there ,  in th' other devil’s name ?
why ,  what are you ?
is it a custom?
have i in conquest stretched mine arm so far to be afraid to tell graybeards the truth ?
the queen your mother ,  in most great affliction of spirit ,  hath sent me to you .
i humbly thank you for't.
what color ,  madam ?
no ,  he’s in tartar limbo ,  worse than hell .
fie upon't !
that was in thy rage .
i lay with cassio lately and, being troubled with a raging tooth, i could not sleep.
no ,  uncle ,  i’ll none .
a pleasing cordial ,  princely buckingham ,  is this thy vow unto my sickly heart .
i have no long spoon .
i see thou knowest me not.
or of a courtier, which could say 'good morrow, sweet lord!
a friendly eye could never see such faults .
well thought on .
i will forestall their repair hither and say you are not fit .
nay, he's a flower, in faith—a very flower.
i drink the air before me, and return or ere your pulse twice beat.
yes ,  faith .
mark you this, bassanio, the devil can cite scripture for his purpose.
the players cannot keep counsel; they'll tell all.
we'll hear the will.
that would hang us ,  every mother’s son .
a good swift simile ,  but something currish .
not see him since ?
how say you now ?
though our lives— your spirits shine through you.
what ,  out of hearing ?
if thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
i think she’ll sooner prove a soldier .
to find out you.
sir topas !
who's there?
take this from this ,  if this be otherwise .
thither he will come to know his destiny .
i did .
macduff is missing ,  and your noble son .
since i am crept in favor with myself ,  i will maintain it with some little cost .
how infinite in faculty!
waking] why, how now?
hold, take these keys and fetch more spices, nurse.
he lies to the heart .
make room ,  and let him stand before our face .
she were an excellent wife for benedict .
went he hence now?
sirrah, fetch drier logs.
or o' mine either ?
seek thine own ease .
i know thee well .
between who ?
and therefore tell me ,  most fair katherine ,  will you have me ?
she creeps .
now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old, i bade her come.
truly to speak, and with no addition, we go to gain a little patch of ground that hath in it no profit but the name.
how say you ?
much castigation ,  exercise devout ,  for here’s a young and sweating devil here ,  that commonly rebels .
sir ,  i must have that diamond from you .
donalbain .
by - and - by ,  i come . — to cease thy suit and leave me to my grief .
it were pity to cast them away for nothing ,  though between them and a great cause they should be esteemed nothing .
o, look!
a ripe age .
i think the sun where he was born drew all such humors from him .
i protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
we all stand up against the spirit of caesar ,  and in the spirit of men there is no blood .
now ,  how dost thou look now ?
and now i’ll do ’t .
fie ,  for shame !
this hand of yours requires a sequester from liberty, fasting and prayer, much castigation, exercise devout, for here's a young and sweating devil here that commonly rebels.
what i can do i will ,  and more i will than for myself i dare .
then murder 's out of tune, and sweet revenge grows harsh.
i will not charm my tongue; i am bound to speak.
if to preserve this vessel for my lord from any other foul unlawful touch be not to be a strumpet ,  i am none .
this, by his voice, should be a montague.
oh ,  noble weakness !
let him thank me ,  that holp to send him thither ,  for he was fitter for that place than earth .
well moused, lion.
the king - becoming graces ,  as justice ,  verity ,  temperance ,  stableness ,  bounty ,  perseverance ,  mercy ,  lowliness ,  devotion ,  patience ,  courage ,  fortitude ,  i have no relish of them ,  but abound in the division of each several crime ,  acting it many ways .
the tyrant custom, most grave senators, hath made the flinty and steel couch of war my thrice driven bed of down.
how shalt thou hope for mercy, rendering none?
there's millions now alive that nightly lie in those unproper beds which they dare swear peculiar.
what beard were i best to play it in ?
retire thee ,  go where thou art billeted .
your grace may do your pleasure .
had you such leisure in the time of death to gaze upon the secrets of the deep ?
what's the matter ?
now, fellow, what is there?
tell me but truly—but then speak the truth— do you not love my sister ?
the mind i sway by and the heart i bear shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear .
well ,  i’ll go hide the body in some hole till that the duke give order for his burial .
when it concerns the fool or coward .
you do mistake your business .
my heart is wondrous light, since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
remember who commended thy yellow stockings— ”  thy yellow stockings ?
why ,  what a monstrous fellow art thou ,  thus to rail on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee !
would'st thou withdraw it?
no.
i will unto venice to buy apparel 'gainst the wedding day .
my gentle puck ,  come hither .
o gertrude ,  come away !
i do entreat you ,  not a man depart ,  save i alone ,  till antony have spoke .
call philostrate .
a man ,  young lady !
i should venture purgatory for ’t .
as you shall prove us, praise us.
thy crown does sear mine eyeballs.
and so did i .
will you go to them?
humbly i thank your grace .
whither wander you?
ready to go ,  but never to return .
traverse ,  go ,  provide thy money .
we will have vengeance for it, fear thou not.
thou dost conspire against thy friend, iago, if thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear a stranger to thy thoughts.
if you say so ,  i hope you will not kill me .
by sinel's death i know i am thane of glamis; but how of cawdor ?
what's here?
nay, go not back.
travelers ne'er did lie ,  though fools at home condemn 'em .
what shall i do?
if there come truth from them— as upon thee ,  macbeth ,  their speeches shine— why ,  by the verities on thee made good ,  may they not be my oracles as well and set me up in hope ?
not being fortune ,  he’s but fortune’s knave ,  a minister of her will .
you were best to tell antonio what you hear; yet do not suddenly ,  for it may grieve him .
things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily that we have had no time to move our daughter.
how weary, stale, flat and unprofitable seem to me all the uses of this world!
provide your going; choose your own company and command what cost your heart has mind to .
ay ,  but the mustard is too hot a little .
i saw bassanio and antonio part: bassanio told him ,  he would make some speed of his return; he answer'd—do not so ,  slubber not business for my sake ,  bassanio ,  but stay the very riping of the time; and for the jew's bond ,  which he hath of me ,  let it not enter in your mind of love: be merry; and employ your chiefest thoughts to courtship ,  and such fair ostents of love ,  as shall conveniently become you there: and even there ,  his eye being big with tears ,  turning his face ,  he put his hand behind him ,  and ,  with affection wondrous sensible ,  he wrung bassanio's hand ,  and so they parted .
sir, i cannot.
if thou attempt it ,  it will cost thee dear: thou hast no weapon ,  and perforce must suffer .
what would your gracious figure?
well, let's away and say how much is done.
your father was ever virtuous ,  and holy men at their death have good inspirations .
with cassio ,  mistress .
for mine own part, i shall be glad to learn of noble men.
what, not a whore?
here comes the lady; let her witness it.
an if he hear thee ,  thou wilt anger him .
who ever would have thought it ?
o loving hate!
some wine, ho!
o peer !
well ,  sir ,  then ’twill be dry .
romans ,  countrymen ,  and lovers !
nor none ,  in my mind ,  now you give her o'er .
alas ,  what cry is that ?
give me some music .
if circumstances lead me ,  i will find where truth is hid ,  though it were hid indeed within the centre .
no ,  caesar shall not .
hail!
i will ,  lady .
how ,  sir ,  how ?
give me thy torch ,  boy .
shall we part ,  sweet girl ?
mean you to enjoy him then ?
i had a son ,  now outlawed from my blood .
my heart is ten times lighter than my looks .
that’s the next to do .
ay ,  ay !
speak, hands, for me!
he is ,  indeed ,  sir ,  the most skillful ,  bloody ,  and fatal opposite that you could possibly have found in any part of illyria .
shall i vent to her that thou art coming ?
but ,  like a sickness ,  did i loathe this food; but ,  as in health ,  come to my natural taste ,  now i do wish it ,  love it ,  long for it ,  and will for evermore be true to it .
say she be mute and will not speak a word; then i’ll commend her volubility ,  and say she uttereth piercing eloquence .
let me live here ever .
you know my mind .
what, my young lady and mistress?
roderigo killed ?
do not deny to him that you love me.
too swift arrives as tardy as too slow .
lo ,  now ,  lo !
why do you cross me in this exigent?
if he love her not ,  and he not from his reason fall'n thereon let me be no assistant for a state ,  but keep a farm and carters .
see for the news .
madam, i am here.
husband ,  i’ll dine above with you today ,  and shrive you of a thousand idle pranks .
was that done like cassius?
o heavy burden !
tis evermore the prologue to his sleep; he'll watch the horologe a double set, if drink rock not his cradle.
to his conveyance i assign my wife ,  with what else needful your good grace shall think to be sent after me .
you look as you had something more to say .
oh ,  these flaws and starts ,  impostors to true fear ,  would well become a woman’s story at a winter’s fire ,  authorized by her grandam .
i thank thee for that gird ,  good tranio .
o mischief strangely thwarting !
no woman’s heart so big ,  to hold so much .
the motion’s good indeed and be it so . — petruchio ,  i shall be your
thieves!
but antonio is certainly undone.
nay ,  and i will .
o my heart !
remember first to possess his books, for without them he's but a sot, as i am, nor hath not one spirit to command—they all do hate him as rootedly as i.
not shafalus to procrus was so true.
i tell you yet again, banquo's buried; he cannot come out on's grave.
tis well .
alas the day !
well ,  do it ,  and be brief .
or ,  if sour woe delights in fellowship and needly will be ranked with other griefs ,  why followed not ,  when she said  “ tybalt’s dead ,  ”   “ thy father ”  or  “ thy mother ,  ”  nay ,  or both ,  which modern lamentations might have moved ?
tongue ,  not a word .
take pains; be perfect; adieu .
oh ,  that the slave had forty thousand lives !
we'll leave you, brutus, and, friends, disperse yourselves, but all remember what you have said and show yourselves true romans.
is not this the day that hermia should give answer of her choice ?
what is yond gentleman ?
what years ,  i' faith ?
take heed of cassius .
are they not now upon the western shore ,  safe - conducting the rebels from their ships ?
o, yet defend me, friends!
and what other oath than honesty to honesty engaged ,  that this shall be ,  or we will fall for it ?
hell is murky.
let that suffice you .
to gonzalo] ‘widow dido’ said you?
do you mark that ,  my lord ?
nay ,  stay .
is this a prologue ,  or the posy of a ring ?
and i ,  most jocund ,  apt ,  and willingly ,  to do you rest ,  a thousand deaths would die .
do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
what you would work me to ,  i have some aim .
a pox o’ your throat ,  you bawling ,  blasphemous ,  incharitable dog !
these ducats pawn i for my father here .
bonos dies ,  sir toby .
you ,  roderigo !
why, ‘one fair daughter, and no more, the which he loved passing well.’ still on my daughter.
we have used our throats in egypt .
the table's full.
herein i teach you how you shall bid god ’ild us for your pains, and thank us for your trouble.
our fortune lies upon this jump .
but ,  o vain boast !
i dare swear this is the right vincentio .
i will not fail .
turn from me then that noble countenance wherein the worship of the whole world lies .
i bring thee tidings of the prince's doom .
now does he feel his title hang loose about him ,  like a giant's robe upon a dwarfish thief .
we will spare for no wit ,  i warrant you .
tush ,  i will stir about ,  and all things shall be well ,  i warrant thee ,  wife .
by and by' is easily said.
my lord?
what, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
i will fetch you light ,  and paper ,  and ink .
what revels are in hand ?
who chooseth me ,  shall get as much as he deserves .
fathers ,  from hence trust not your daughters' minds by what you see them act .
all come to this ?
when?
no port is free ,  no place that guard and most unusual vigilance does not attend my taking .
thou didst smile, infused with a fortitude from heaven, when i have decked the sea with drops full salt, under my burden groaned; which raised in me an undergoing stomach, to bear up against what should ensue.
these are unsightly tricks .
look ,  how our partner's rapt .
oh ,  villainy ,  villainy !
but how ,  my lord ,  shall we resist it now ?
when shall we three meet again ?
she is damn'd for it .
can you not stay awhile ?
a gentleman ,  nurse ,  that loves to hear himself talk and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month .
about the ninth hour ,  lady .
news ,  my good lord ,  from rome .
there is ,  there is .
here’s snip and nip and cut and slish and slash ,  like to a censer in a barber’s shop .
there is a litter ready .
and so it is, truly; and very notably discharged.
brutus, i do observe you now of late; i have not from your eyes that gentleness and show of love as i was wont to have; you bear too stubborn and too strange a hand over your friend that loves you.
evermore weeping for your cousin's death ?
poor souls, the perished.
then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
look to my chattels and my movables .
if you’ll come to supper tonight ,  you may .
ay ,  lepidus .
it likes us well; and at our more consider'd time we'll read ,  answer ,  and think upon this business .
peace ,  peace !
good grandam ,  tell us ,  is our father dead ?
you’ll  “ never trust his word after .  ”  come ,  ’tis a foolish saying .
they are all but stomachs ,  and we all but food .
about it !
perchance even there where i did find my doubts.
o horror ,  horror ,  horror !
but sure the bravery of his grief did put me into a towering passion .
take my sword .
there ,  take it to you ,  trenchers ,  cups ,  and all !
what should i do ?
good words are better than bad strokes ,  octavius .
ha' to thee ,  lad !
the mayor and all his brethren in best sort ,  like to the senators of th' antique rome ,  with the plebeians swarming at their heels ,  go forth and fetch their conquering caesar in— as ,  by a lower but loving likelihood ,
the gods defend her ! —hear him hence awhile .
nor rain ,  wind ,  thunder ,  fire are my daughters .
self - harming jealousy ,  fie ,  beat it hence .
say either ,  and i'll stay the circumstance .
had you rather caesar were living and die all slaves ,  than that caesar were dead ,  to live all free men ?
that high all - seer which i dallied with hath turned my feignèd prayer on my head and given in earnest what i begged in jest .
farewell .
is there division ’twixt my lord and cassio ?
by his cockle hat and staff and his sandal shoon .
i’ll not to bed tonight .
if he be taken ,  he shall never more be feared of doing harm .
my royal lord, you do not give the cheer.
you are dull ,  casca ,  and those sparks of life that should be in a roman you do want ,  or else you use not .
let hercules himself do what he may, the cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
stay, though thou kill me, sweet demetrius.
a flatterer’s would not ,  though they do appear as huge as high olympus .
that you shall surely find him, lead to the sagittary the raised search, and there will i be with him.
ay ,  desdemona .
o coz ,  coz ,  coz ,  my pretty little coz ,  that thou didst know how many fathom deep i am in love .
you are unkind, demetrius; be not so; for you love hermia.
beware of entrance to a quarrel; but being in ,  bear't that the opposed may beware of thee .
my first false speaking was this upon myself .
were it good ,  think you ?
antonio, i am married to a wife, which is as dear to me as life itself; but life itself, my wife, and all the world are not with me esteem'd above thy life; i would lose all, ay, sacrifice them all here to this devil, to deliver you.
adieu .
i will play the swan .
is he come home yet ?
so perhaps did yours .
the thane of cawdor lives ,  a prosperous gentleman; and to be king stands not within the prospect of belief ,  no more than to be cawdor .
murder !
master ,  master !
stand aside .
look what i have .
i doubt some danger does approach you nearly .
it is almost morning, and yet, i am sure, you are not satisfied of these events at full.
oh ,  behold how pomp is followed !
within the bond of marriage, tell me, brutus, is it excepted i should know no secrets that appertain to you?
i have no wife .
caesar?
tis certain so ,  the prince woos for himself .
shall i not then be stifled in the vault, to whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in, and there die strangled ere my romeo comes?
as if that name ,  shot from the deadly level of a gun ,  did murder her; as that name's cursed hand murdered her kinsman .
draw together, and when i rear my hand, do you the like, to fall it on gonzalo.
i’ll rest .
but for which of my good parts did you first suffer love for me ?
is it so ,  countrymen ?
speak; tell me .
o most dear mistress ,  the sun will set before i shall discharge what i must strive to do .
o cleopatra !
o ,  what learning is !
some are born great— ”
seek to know no more.
will you hear me ,  roderigo ?
father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother.
you are my true and honorable wife ,  as dear to me as are the ruddy drops that visit my sad heart .
this ,  casca .
are we turn'd turks, and to ourselves do that which heaven hath forbid the ottomites?
out upon it ,  old carrion !
i partly know the man .
hark!
news have i that my nell is dead i' th' spital of a malady of france ,  and there my rendezvous is quite cut off .
i neither know it nor can learn of him .
what mean’st thou by that ?
excellent good ,  i' faith .
tis torture ,  and not mercy .
mark me with what violence she first loved the moor, but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies.
no, noble mistress, ’tis fresh morning with me when you are by at night.
lorenzo ,  and thy love .
stay you ,  good gentlemen .
let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, caius.
aside to prospero] sir, all this service [aside to prospero] sir, all this service have i done since i went.
yet here ,  laertes ?
this love feel i, that feel no love in this.
tis almost fairy time .
well ,  your imprisonment shall not be long .
the third part ,  then ,  is drunk .
i will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
but why should honor outlive honesty ?
at your kind’st leisure .
come the next sabbath ,  and i will content you .
but ,  till the king come forth ,  and not till then ,  unto southampton do we shift our scene .
but, my good lord— wherefore should you do this?
thou shalt hold the opinion of pythagoras ere i will allow of thy wits ,  and fear to kill a woodcock lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam .
happy be theseus ,  our renowned duke !
yet i fear him ,  for in the ingrafted love he bears to caesar— alas ,  good cassius ,  do not think of him .
but who is here?
and it is very much lamented ,  brutus ,  that you have no such mirrors as will turn your hidden worthiness into your eye that you might see your shadow .
tis safer to be that which we destroy than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
methinks it should be now a huge eclipse of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe should yawn at alteration.
wife !
hold !
upon my sword.
i shall be constrained in ’t to call thee knave ,  knight .
tubal, a wealthy hebrew of my tribe, will furnish me.
vouchsafe ,  defused infection of a man ,  of these known evils but to give me leave by circumstance to curse thy cursèd self .
young son ,  it argues a distempered head so soon to bid good morrow to thy bed .
dispatch . —o love ,  that thou couldst see my wars today ,  and knew’st the royal occupation !
i call them forth to credit her .
i wish your worship well .
of launcelot ,  an't please your mastership .
out of their saddles into the dirt ,  and thereby hangs a tale .
i am never merry when i hear sweet music .
i thank you for your pains and courtesy.
young son ,  it argues a distempered head so soon to bid good morrow to thy bed .
but he ,  poor man ,  by your first order died ,  and that a wingèd mercury did bear .
what shall you ask of me that i’ll deny ,  that honor ,  saved ,  may upon asking give ?
such news ,  my lord ,  as grieves me to report .
come ,  thou gentle day .
i know not what i shall think of that: but i am launcelot ,  the jew's man; and i am sure margery ,  your wife ,  is my mother .
but come ,  young waverer ,  come ,  go with me ,  in one respect i’ll thy assistant be ,  for this alliance may so happy prove to turn your households' rancor to pure love .
come ,  lords ,  will you go to comfort edward with our company ?
on such a full sea are we now afloat, and we must take the current when it serves, or lose our ventures.
i mean, sir, in delay we waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
we have met with foes that strike beside us.
what hast thou found ?
will you give thanks ,  sweet kate ,  or else shall i ? — what’s this ?
i have seen nothing.
confusion now hath made his masterpiece .
let us not leave him out .
our course will seem too bloody, caius cassius, to cut the head off and then hack the limbs like wrath in death and envy afterwards; for antony is but a limb of caesar.
who's there?
we’ll mend our dinner here .
tis mightiest in the mightiest .
your houses!
methinks the ground is even .
you must call forth the watch that are their accusers .
ay ,  and he’ll tame her .
since thou dost give me pains let me remember thee what thou hast promised ,  which is not yet performed me .
i have well approved it ,  sir .
here, my good lord.
it is the bright day that brings forth the adder and that craves wary walking .
this contents .
go in ,  and tell my lady i am gone ,  having displeased my father ,  to lawrence’s cell to make confession and to be absolved .
you are as well provided of both as any prince in the world .
how came he dead?
master ,  some show to welcome us to town .
i have ,  my lord .
monster ,  you fairy ,  which you say is a harmless fairy ,  has done little better than played the jack with us .
tis gone!
how do you ,  sir ?
where’s the master ?
scale of dragon, tooth of wolf, witch's mummy, maw and gulf of the ravin'd salt-sea shark, root of hemlock digg'd i’ the dark, liver of blaspheming jew, gall of goat and slips of yew sliver'd in the moon's eclipse, nose of turk and tartar's lips, finger of birth-strangled babe ditch-deliver'd by a drab, make the gruel thick and slab.
where have i been ?
if you will patiently dance in our round, and see our moonlight revels, go with us; if not, shun me, and i will spare your haunts.
if it assume my noble father's person, i'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape and bid me hold my peace.
he shall not live; look, with a spot i damn him.
hover about her; say that right for right hath dimmed your infant morn to agèd night .
no ,  corin ,  being old ,  thou canst not guess ,  though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover as ever sighed upon a midnight pillow .
it faded on the crowing of the cock.
if their purgation did consist in words ,  they are as innocent as grace itself .
you’ll heat my blood .
if every of your wishes had a womb ,  and fertile every wish ,  a million .
will you, i pray, demand that demidevil why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
this is the man ,  this is antonio ,  to whom i am so infinitely bound .
look where he goes even now out at the portal!
nay ,  she is worse; she is the devil’s dam ,  and here she comes in the habit of a light wench .
let it be so.
have you no wit ,  manners ,  nor honesty but to gabble like tinkers at this time of night ?
how 'gree you now ?
ay ,  but ,  lady ,  that policy may either last so long ,  or feed upon such nice and waterish diet ,  or breed itself so out of circumstances ,  that i being absent and my place supplied ,  my general will forget my love and service .
either thou ,  macbeth ,  or else my sword with an unbattered edge i sheathe again undeeded .
tybalt is gone ,  and romeo banishèd .
my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge .
what noise is that ?
gentlewoman ,  my lady calls .
come ,  let us go .
an upright judge ,  a learned judge !
i am glad to see you in this merry vein .
i am only sorry  he had no other death’s - man .
who is here so rude that would not be a roman ?
the thoughts of people .
caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands, unless thou bring'st them with thee.
but ,  my good lord ,  your graces' words shall serve as well as i had seen and heard him speak; and do not doubt ,  right noble princes both ,  but i’ll acquaint our duteous citizens with all your just proceedings in this case .
i know thou wilt say  “ ay ,  ”  and i will take thy word .
i'll fetch him presently.
i think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation.
we charge you ,  in the prince’s name ,  stand !
worthy gentleman !
but i had rather fast from all four days than drink so much in one .
then heaven have mercy on me !
take thou that .
dismiss me?
i will go tell him of fair hermia's flight; then to the wood will he tomorrow night pursue her; and for this intelligence if i have thanks, it is a dear expense.
o my christian ducats !
when they do choose ,  they have the wisdom by their wit to lose .
o error ,  soon conceived ,  thou never comest unto a happy birth ,  but kill'st the mother that engender'd thee !
speak within door .
all things that are ,  are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd .
live ,  and hereafter say a madman’s mercy bid thee run away .
i have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes; and but thou love me ,  let them find me here .
how canst thou try them so ?
that ever holds: who riseth from a feast with that keen appetite that he sits down?
ah sir!
sweet doctor ,  you shall be my bedfellow; when i am absent ,  then lie with my wife .
better macbeth than such an one to reign .
o juliet ,  i already know thy grief .
when ,  without stratagem ,  but in plain shock and even play of battle ,  was ever known so great and little loss on one part and on th' other ?
tis with him in standing water ,  between boy and man .
leave you !
repent not you that you shall lose your friend, and he repents not that he pays your debt; for, if the jew do cut but deep enough, i'll pay it instantly with all my heart.
let's after him ,  whose care is gone before to bid us welcome: it is a peerless kinsman .
so tell them, publius.
spake you not these words plain:  “ sirrah ,  knock me here ,  rap me here ,  knock me well ,  and knock me soundly ”  ?
in such a night, medea gather'd the enchanted herbs that did renew old æson.
out ,  strumpet !
in faith ,  my lord ,  not i .
what are they ,  beseech your ladyship ?
the ancient saying is no heresy .
but how is it that this lives in thy mind?
we shall chide downright if i longer stay.
enter ,  sir ,  the castle .
alas ,  poor caitiff !
decius brutus loves thee not .
if of life you keep a care ,  shake off slumber ,  and beware .
what’s he that speaks for edmund ,  earl of gloucester ?
alack ,  poor gentleman !
now he is a - praying .
is all our company here?
give me your neaf, monsieur mustardseed.
in the great hand of god i stand ,  and thence against the undivulged pretense i fight of treasonous malice .
the wine she drinks is made of grapes.
thus have you heard me severed from my bliss; that by misfortunes was my life prolonged to tell sad stories of my own mishaps .
tis partly my own fault ,  which death or absence soon shall remedy .
follow me ,  lady . — turn out that eyeless villain .
apothecary !
i'll put it on.
by th' mass ,  and ’tis like a camel indeed .
this is too long .
if you be pleased ,  retire into my cell and there repose .
your reason ?
see ,  and then speak yourselves .
croak not ,  black angel .
all comfort that the dark night can afford be to thy person ,  noble father - in - law .
look what i have .
for those that mingle reason with your passion must be content to think you old ,  and so— but she knows what she does .
kind gentlemen ,  your pains are registered where every day i turn the leaf to read them .
that's two of his weapons.
welcome, gentlemen!
i hear some noise .
and yet i wish but for the thing i have .
grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath.
mine shall be spent, when theirs are dry, for romeo's banishment.
couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.
affection ?
we have sworn ,  my lord ,  already .
with his eyes full of anger .
by my troth ,  i am sick .
ha ,  art thou bedlam ?
we must do something ,  and i' th' heat .
disloyal ?
i'll find romeo to comfort you .
well, my good lord.
no ,  it begins again .
how now ,  my lord ?
be patient till the last.
well ,  but what’s o'clock ?
you make me study of that: she was of carthage, not of tunis.
why, 'tis not possible.
yes ,  faith ,  and all his lords ,  the duke of milan and his brave son being twain .
a kinder gentleman treads not the earth .
speak ,  if you can: what are you ?
thus have i ,  wall ,  my part dischargèd so .
bassanio told him he would make some speed of his return .
what say you ?
he’s a very fool and a prodigal .
or shall we on without apology ?
i would not kill thy soul .
i am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things: first, never to unfold to any one, which casket 'twas i chose; next, if i fail of the right casket, never in my life to woo a maid in way of marriage; lastly, if i do fail in fortune of my choice, immediately to leave you, and be gone.
what ceremony else?
are you not well ?
and these few precepts in thy memory look thou character .
at land ,  thou know’st how much we do o’ercount thee .
then you'll buy ’em to sell again.
good night ,  sweet prince ,  and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest !
the doors are broke.
a greater gift ?
it seemed she was a queen over her passion ,  who ,  most rebel - like ,  sought to be king o'er her .
who’s within ?
so much was his pleasure should be proclaimed .
what was the second noise for?
i will dry - beat you with an iron wit ,  and put up my iron dagger .
call the messenger .
well then ,  i know thee .
i pray you give me leave.
is ’t so ,  my lords of england ?
i prophesied if a gallows were on land this fellow could not drown .
a simple countryman that brought her figs .
but as all is mortal in nature ,  so is all nature in love mortal in folly .
i am sure i am none such .
still so cruel ?
come.
move these eyes ?
come away .
yet i love thee too .
there lay he ,  stretched along like a wounded knight .
tomorrow night look that thou lie alone .
so you thought him ,  and took his voice who should be prick'd to die in our black sentence and proscription .
no ,  but the barber’s man hath been seen with him ,  and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis balls .
let’s to billiards .
and though you know my inwardness and love is very much unto the prince and claudio ,  yet ,  by mine honor ,  i will deal in this as secretly and justly as your soul should with your body .
this if she perform ,  she shall not sue unheard .
my royal cousin ,  teach you our princess english ?
nay ,  then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee ,  having bought love with such a bloody spoil .
why ,  shall we turn to men ?
i pray you all ,  if you have hitherto conceal'd this sight ,  let it be tenable in your silence still; and whatsoever else shall hap tonight ,  give it an understanding ,  but no tongue .
i pray thee chide not.
so ,  slave ,  hence !
o inhuman dog!
follow him, friends.
my lord ,  we must entreat the time alone .
but for your husband ,  he is noble ,  wise ,  judicious ,  and best knows the fits o' th' season .
saint davy’s day is past .
is my father well?
but i pray ,  can you read anything you see ?
i am not cinna the conspirator .
he brushes his hat o' mornings .
i am his brother ,  and i love him well .
i have a salt and sorry rheum offends me; lend me thy handkerchief .
we know each other’s faces; for our hearts ,  he knows no more of mine than i of yours ,  or i of his ,  my lord ,  than you of mine . — lord hastings ,  you and he are near in love .
thou shalt be lord of it, and i'll server thee.
i am sorry for your displeasure ,  but all will sure be well .
spirit ,  we must prepare to meet with caliban .
and therefore ,  since i cannot prove a lover to entertain these fair well - spoken days ,  i am determinèd to prove a villain and hate the idle pleasures of these days .
i take no pleasure in aught an eunuch has .
let me play the lion too .
and let the wise man fly .
i shall do ’t .
come down ,  behold no more .
i have forgot why i did call thee back .
nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.
there is tears for his love ,  joy for his fortune ,  honor for his valor ,  and death for his ambition .
how are they escoted ?
these things sting his mind so venomously that burning shame detains him from cordelia .
upon them !
grim death ,  how foul and loathsome is thine image !
ecstasy ?
can he vent trinculos?
prithee ,  emilia ,  go know of cassio where he supp'd tonight .
let him go ,  gertrude .
and may ,  but how ?
how can it be ?
whereon old norway ,  overcome with joy ,
lord ,  what fools these mortals be !
i mock you ?
what have we here?
why that’s with watching ,  ’twill away again .
am i a coward ?
where did you leave him?
thrice-blessed they that master so their blood to undergo such maiden pilgrimage; but earthlier happy is the rose distill'd than that which, withering on the virgin thorn grows, lives, and dies, in single blessedness.
the sight is dismal; and our affairs from england come too late.
why ,  then ,  some be of laughing ,  as ,  ah ,  ha ,  he !
if he but blench, i know my course.
am i yourself but, as it were, in sort or limitation, to keep with you at meals, comfort your bed, and talk to you sometimes?
wit shall not go unrewarded while i am king of this country .
sing it .
she shall be buried with her face upwards .
whither goest thou ?
and how you may be converted i know not ,  but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do .
o my dear niece ,  welcome thou art to me ,  even daughter ,  welcome in no less degree .
a messenger from the galleys.
you would be satisfied ?
but now ,  baptista ,  to your younger daughter .
what do you mean ?
our course will seem too bloody ,  caius cassius ,  to cut the head off and then hack the limbs like wrath in death and envy afterwards; for antony is but a limb of caesar .
so please your grace ,  the prologue is address'd .
what may you be ?
it was the lark ,  the herald of the morn; no nightingale .
it is  “ never tire .  ”  oh .
a madness most discreet ,  a choking gall ,  and a preserving sweet .
thy fates open their hands .
i find not myself disposed to sleep .
and how besides thyself ?
who's there?
is he not a most profane and liberal counselor?
why ,  what an ass am i !
how now, good cassio!
this is not yet an alexandrian feast .
thus have i politicly begun my reign ,  and ’tis my hope to end successfully .
master ,  young gentleman ,  i pray you which is the way to master jew's ?
if i profane with my unworthiest hand this holy shrine ,  the gentle fine is this: my lips ,  two blushing pilgrims ,  ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss .
where's potpan ,  that he helps not to take away ?
let me endure your wrath ,  if't be not so .
or here ,  or at the capitol .
i have seen nothing .
what ,  wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears ?
my dear?
fear it, ophelia, fear it, my dear sister, and keep you in the rear of your affection, out of the shot and danger of desire.
what’s to do ?
why ,  how now ,  kate !
are you so gospell'd, to pray for this good man and for his issue, whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave and beggar'd yours for ever?
pleaseth your majesty to give me leave ,  i’ll muster up my friends and meet your grace where and what time your majesty shall please .
and this ,  metellus cimber .
and i another so weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune, that i would set my life on any chance, to mend it or be rid on ’t.
i must be one of these same dumb wise men ,  for gratiano never lets me speak .
hate me !
or shall we on without apology?
how now ,  daughter and cousin ?
go, begone.
sir ,  i cannot .
nature is fine in love ,  and where 'tis fine ,  it sends some precious instance of itself after the thing it loves .
and out of doubt you do me now more wrong in making question of my uttermost than if you had made waste of all i have .
cassio knows you not .
fare thee well !
hail ,  mortal !
i love you the better; the hearers may cry  “ amen .  ”  god match me with a good dancer !
i can behold no longer .
strike!
come ,  night .
and did you see the handkerchief ?
stop it, marcellus!
what's the news with you ?
hold ,  toby !
but mark ,  poor knight ,  what dreadful dole is here !
you shall confess that you are both deceived .
ratcliffe ,  about the mid of night come to my tent and help to arm me .
not so young ,  sir ,  to love a woman for singing ,  nor so old to dote on her for anything .
o mistress ,  villainy hath made mocks with love !
away ,  be gone; the sport is at the best .
now art thou sociable .
excellent !
five shillings to one on ’t ,  with any man that knows the statutes ,  he may stay him—marry ,  not without the prince be willing ,  for indeed the watch ought to offend no man ,  and it is an offense to stay a man against his will .
our queen and all her elves come here anon.
if any be trinculo’s legs ,  these are they .
trebonius knows his time .
you shall not write my praise.
good-morrow, friends.
i go .
what profane wretch art thou ?
a good direction ,  warlike sovereign .
i am ready now.
i forget ,  but these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labors ,  most busiest when i do it .
stay here .
and that clear honour were purchas'd by the merit of the wearer!
we’ll speak to them ,  and tonight i’ll force the wine peep through their scars . —come on ,  my queen ,  there’s sap in ’t yet .
think you not that the powers we bear with us will cut their passage through the force of france ,  doing the execution and the act for which we have in head assembled them ?
and they have conspired together,—i will not say, you shall see a masque; but if you do, then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on black- monday last, at six o'clock i' the morning, falling out that year on ash-wednesday was four year in the afternoon.
i am come to bid my king and master aye good night .
well, shylock, shall we be beholden to you?
there’s my hand .
tis monstrous.
will it not be?
tis vile ,  unless it may be quaintly ordered ,  and better ,  in my mind ,  not undertook .
now let’s have a catch .
romeo ,  hist !
miranda . —o my father ,  i have broke your hest to say so !
come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
i beseech you .
caesar should be a beast without a heart if he should stay at home today for fear .
thou hast wronged caius ligarius .
what ,  did they never whisper ?
say that i wish he never find more cause to change a master .
marry ,  sir ,  for this something that you gave me for nothing .
i will bite thee by the ear for that jest .
for this relief much thanks .
i will tomorrow— and betimes i will—to the weird sisters .
there is so much that thou wilt kill me straight: kill brutus ,  and be honor'd in his death .
here is a friar, and slaughter'd romeo's man, with instruments upon them fit to open these dead men's tombs.
who wouldst thou serve ?
thou hast mistaken quite, and laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight.
where are my switzers?
when i came back— for this was brief— i found them close together at blow and thrust ,  even as again they were when you yourself did part them .
be bloody ,  bold ,  and resolute .
about it .
nay, i'll conjure too.
a customer!
when will he be here ?
had you rather caesar were living and die all slaves ,  than that caesar were dead to live all freemen ?
borrow cupid’s wings and soar with them above a common bound .
the obsequies that i for thee will keep nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep .
how sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
you see an ass-head of your own, do you?
fly ,  masters !
this is that banish'd haughty montague that murdered my love's cousin—with which grief it is supposed the fair creature died— and here is come to do some villanous shame to the dead bodies.
the sight of lovers feedeth those in love .
i'll go along ,  no such sight to be shown ,  but to rejoice in splendour of my own .
past the mid season .
and discourse fustian with one's own shadow?
he ,  woman; i say thy husband .
in such a night ,  medea gather'd the enchanted herbs that did renew old æson .
nay, this was but his dream.
thieves !
o ,  if thou be’st the same egeon ,  speak ,  and speak unto the same emilia .
my language !
pray you ,  keep seat .
only i say things have been strangely borne .
i will bestow you where you shall have time to speak your bosom freely.
well ,  we were born to die .
how came she by that light ?
my lord ,  i think i saw him yesternight .
tyranny is dead !
ay ,  and briefly .
hanging and wiving goes by destiny .
sue to him again and he’s yours .
good people ,  enter and lay hold on him .
i know he would not be a wolf but that he sees the romans are but sheep.
yet bend not all the harm upon yourself .
it was a vision fair and fortunate .
no more ,  cousin .
i know not where he lodges ,  and for me to devise a lodging and say he lies here ,  or he lies there ,  were to lie in mine own throat .
i'th’ air or th’ earth?
pooh ,  you speak like a green girl ,  unsifted in such perilous circumstance .
happy is hermia, wheresoe'er she lies, for she hath blessed and attractive eyes.
to leave his wife ,  to leave his babes ,  his mansion ,  and his titles ,  in a place from whence himself does fly ?
she gives it out that you shall marry her .
why should you think that i should woo in scorn?
for christian shame ,  put by this barbarous brawl .
welcome ,  gentlemen !
by th' way we met my wife ,  her sister ,  and a rabble more of vile confederates .
to gonzalo] though this island seem to be [to gonzalo] though this island seem to be desert,— [to sebastian] ha, ha, ha!
she for an edward weeps ,  and so do i; i for a clarence weep; so doth not she .
but get thee back .
come ,  away .
seems ,  madam ?
god's my life, stolen hence, and left me asleep!
in weightier things you’ll say a beggar nay .
a deed without a name .
this is trebonius .
devilish macbeth by many of these trains hath sought to win me into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me from over-credulous haste.
mend your speech a little ,  lest you may mar your fortunes .
sir ,  in fine ,  seeing how loathly opposite i stood to his unnatural purpose ,  in fell motion ,  with his preparèd sword he charges home my unprovided body ,  latched mine arm .
o most wicked fiend!
and ’tis great pity that the noble moor should hazard such a place as his own second with one of an ingraft infirmity .
this hebrew will turn christian; he grows kind .
i pause for a reply .
thy face is mine ,  and thou hast sland'red it .
away ,  tybalt .
pray you ,  sit down ,  for now we sit to chat as well as eat .
not a mouse stirring .
what hath he said ?
transparent helena!
now the fleeting moon no planet is of mine .
i pull in resolution and begin to doubt the equivocation of the fiend that lies like truth .
my lord ,  i'll hit him now .
what would my lord ,  but that he may not have ,  wherein olivia may seem serviceable ?
faith ,  i can tell her age unto an hour .
but come, for england!
bid her have good heart .
go to ,  mum ,  you are he .
farewell ,  my lord .
fie ,  there is no such man; it is impossible .
i slept the next night well ,  fed well ,  was free and merry .
when caesar lived ,  he durst not thus have moved me .
why i descend into this bed of death is partly to behold my lady's face, but chiefly to take thence from her dead finger a precious ring—a ring that i must use in dear employment.
note this before my notes: there’s not a note of mine that’s worth the noting .
well ,  time is the old justice that examines all such offenders ,  and let time try .
o dolt!
do so ,  good messala .
my brother shall know of it.
she will sit you—you heard my daughter tell you how .
how dost thou like the lord bassanio’s wife ?
tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen.
tis safer to be that which we destroy than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy .
sink rome !
good my lord .
rebels it at these years?
what counterfeit did i give you ?
fly hence and leave me .
let me have a dram of poison ,  such soon - speeding gear as will disperse itself through all the veins that the life - weary taker may fall dead ,  and that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath as violently as hasty powder fir'd doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb .
i tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
let us score their backs and snatch ’em up ,  as we take hares ,  behind !
here ,  here ,  sir !
at mine own house ,  good lady .
to ariel] spirit, fine spirit, i—ii free [to ariel] spirit, fine spirit, i—ii free thee within two days for this.
he reads much ,  he is a great observer ,  and he looks quite through the deeds of men .
where's your master?
there's no trust, no faith, no honesty in men; all perjur'd, all forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
o, but she'll keep her word.
and you the judges, bear a wary eye.
come, civil night, thou sober-suited matron, all in black, and learn me how to lose a winning match, play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.
farewell the plumèd troops and the big wars that makes ambition virtue !
still you keep o' the windy side of the law .
tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way ran he ?
and yet i fear you ,  for you are fatal then when your eyes roll so .
that’s my good son .
there the men are as mad as he .
fellow ,  wilt thou bestow thy time with me ?
thy currish spirit governed a wolf who ,  hanged for human slaughter ,  even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet ,  and whilst thou layest in thy unhallowed dam infused itself in thee ,  for thy desires are wolvish ,  bloody ,  starved ,  and ravenous .
go show your slaves how choleric you are and make your bondmen tremble .
nay ,  how now ,  where are you ?
when they next wake ,  all this derision shall seem a dream and fruitless vision; and back to athens shall the lovers wend ,  with league whose date till death shall never end .
had you rather caesar were living and die all slaves, than that caesar were dead to live all freemen?
that .
my noble father ,  i do perceive here a divided duty .
if you should die before him ,  where’s her dower ?
i rather think you have not sought her help, of whose soft grace for the like loss i have her sovereign aid, and rest myself content.
at least i’m sure it may be so in denmark .
what simple thief brags of his own attaint ?
what say'st thou to me now?
you are naught ,  you are naught .
my lord of warwick and my brother gloucester ,  follow fluellen closely at the heels .
tis no matter . — go to the fellow ,  good alexas .
tis done by me ,  and ends in  “ margaret .  ”    thus have you breathed your curse against yourself .
widow dido ”  said you ?
this foul egyptian hath betrayèd me .
they swore that you were well - nigh dead for me .
i am content ,  so the maiden cities you talk of may wait on her .
the foul practice hath turn'd itself on me.
you ,  you ,  ay ,  you !
who is't that can inform me?
love’s not love when it is mingled with regards that stands aloof from th' entire point .
be wise ,  and get you home .
show !
nay ,  come ,  let's go together .
part them !
it is indifferent cold ,  my lord ,  indeed .
you will be whipped .
what committed ?
upon the rack ,  bassanio ?
the lady doth protest too much, methinks.
then was this island— save for the son that she did litter here ,  a freckled whelp ,  hag - born—not honoured with a human shape .
go ,  and with your speediest bring us what she says and how you find of her .
striving to better ,  oft we mar what’s well .
she’s the worse for all this .
zounds, i bleed still; i am hurt to the death.
hath your grace ne'er a brother like you ?
a bawd ,  a bawd ,  a bawd !
he is already named, and gone to scone to be invested.
who talks of my nation ?
the date is out of such prolixity.
good signors both ,  when shall we laugh ?
no more ,  no more .
we are resolved ,  my lord .
jove shield thee well for this !
are his wits safe ?
may you stead me ?
i myself .
what may i call your name ?
very like ,  very like .
which way ?
are there balance here to weigh the flesh ?
have you the lion's part written ?
bassanio ,  lord love ,  if thy will it be .
take up the bodies .
is my lord well ,  that he doth speak so wide ?
it is silliness to live when to live is torment, and then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
father ,  and wife ,  and gentlemen ,  adieu .
what news ?
you that choose not by the view, chance as fair, and choose as true!
hold ,  ho ! —lieutenant—sir—montano—gentlemen— have you forgot all place of sense and duty ?
good sir ,  be patient .
my breath and blood !
but such officers do the king best service in the end.
i will make fast the doors ,  and gild myself with some more ducats ,  and be with you straight .
the fee simple ?
it is my arm .
what hast thou found ?
now ,  cinna . —now ,  metellus . —what ,  trebonius ,  i have an hour’s talk in store for you .
i see this hath a little dash'd your spirits.
o rude unthankfulness !
yet brutus says he was ambitious, and brutus is an honorable man.
remember what i have said .
thyself shalt see the act: for, as thou urgest justice, be assur'd thou shalt have justice, more than thou desirest.
first he denied you had in him no right .
nay ,  heaven doth know .
to what end ,  my lord ?
so much was his pleasure should be proclaimed.
drown thyself ?
what should such fellows as i do ,  crawling between earth and heaven ?
he was but a fool that brought my answer back .
not since widow dido's time .
so ,  dolabella ,  it shall content me best .
come ,  he hath hid himself among these trees to be consorted with the humorous night .
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now ?
how doth the prince ?
we wait upon your grace .
i do consent— prick him down ,  antony .
what you know ,  you know .
o lord ,  i must laugh .
o worthy stephano!
what is it that you would impart to me ?
live you ?
look to your house ,  your daughter ,  and your bags !
oh ,  yet i do repent me of my fury ,  that i did kill them .
write to me very shortly ,  and you shall understand from me her mind .
you did .
that ’scuse serves many men to save their gifts .
if it please his majesty, it is the breathing time of day with me.
so please you ,  he is here at the door and importunes access to you .
nor i .  i would not there reside to put my father in impatient thoughts by being in his eye .
here's fine revolution ,  and we had the trick to see't .
his counsel now might do me golden service .
i owe you much ,  and ,  like a willful youth ,  that which i owe is lost .
marry, well bethought!
helen, it is not so.
come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed, while i thy amiable cheeks do coy, and stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head, and kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy.
nay ,  come ,  kate ,  come .
a touch ,  a touch ,  i do confess ’t .
what ?
romeo slew tybalt .
bring the villain forth .
if brutus will vouchsafe that antony may safely come to him and be resolved how caesar hath deserved to lie in death, mark antony shall not love caesar dead so well as brutus living, but will follow the fortunes and affairs of noble brutus thorough the hazards of this untrod state with all true faith.
lo ,  she is one of this confederacy !
for ,  as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man loose - wived ,  so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded .
think so ,  iago ?
let me lick thy shoe.
i am afeard there are few die well that die in a battle ,  for how can they charitably dispose of anything ,  when blood is their argument ?
ay, ay, three thousand ducats.
what’s this ?
tis twenty year till then .
and indeed it takes from our achievements ,  though performed at height ,  the pith and marrow of our attribute .
what visions have i seen !
stay ,  fellow; i can read .
tis true my brother's daughter's queen of tunis; so is she heir of naples; ’twixt which regions there is some space .
you know i gave it you even now .
and neither man nor master would take aught but the two rings .
if i do not usurp myself ,  i am .
give me thy hand .
get me some poison ,  iago ,  this night .
what friend ?
marry ,  sir ,  we say we are none .
that were some spite; my invocation is fair and honest: in his mistress’ name, i conjure only but to raise up him.
go softly on.
good morrow ,  kate—for that’s your name ,  i hear .
we are ,  my lord ,  and come to have the warrant that we may be admitted where he is .
happy ,  in that we are not overhappy .
my father is hard at study .
you’re much deceived .
what is the matter ,  masters ?
with this ,  my lord ,  myself have naught to do .
it is my wretched fortune .
i pray you, remember the porter.
it is impossible you should see this ,  were they as prime as goats ,  as hot as monkeys ,  as salt as wolves in pride ,  and fools as gross as ignorance made drunk .
o, be some other name!
alack the day !
good my lord !
what's the news from venice?
not stingless too ?
methinks i see these things with parted eye, when every thing seems double.
shake !  ”  quoth the dovehouse .
this seen ,  orlando did approach the man and found it was his brother ,  his elder brother .
god make your majesty joyful ,  as you have been .
my soul shall thine keep company to heaven .
i do assure thee ,  father ,  so it is .
then i’ll be brief .
what's this ?
nurse ,  commend me to thy lady and mistress .
tis a wonder ,  by your leave ,  she will be tamed so .
your old smock brings forth a new petticoat ,  and indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow .
let wantons light of heart tickle the senseless rushes with their heels; for i am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase, i'll be a candle-holder and look on; the game was ne'er so fair, and i am done.
doth not she think me an old murderer, now i have stain'd the childhood of our joy with blood remov'd but little from her own?
sir ,  in good faith ,  or in sincere verity ,  under th' allowance of your great aspect ,  whose influence ,  like the wreath of radiant fire on flickering phoebus' front—      what mean’st by this ?
o devil ,  devil !
if aught of woe or wonder ,  cease your search .
but what of cicero?
is it sport?
so be it!
there is time enough .
pray you ,  if it be ,  give it me ,  for i am slow of study .
here, here!
give me thy hand ,  messala .
we’ll burn his body in the holy place ,  and with the brands fire the traitors' houses .
nothing but death shall stay me.
for ,  coming thence ,  my son is lost ,  and ,  in my rate ,  she too ,  who is so far from italy removed i ne'er again shall see her .
thieves !
naughty lady ,  these hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin will quicken and accuse thee .
do not deny to him that you love me .
belike this is a man of that quirk .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
i shall in all my best obey you ,  madam .
oh ,  how i love thee !
we took this mattock and this spade from him as he was coming from this churchyard side .
call thyself  “ sister ,  ”  sweet ,  for i am thee .
how old are you ,  friend ?
where is this sight ?
i have it not about me .
ay, and truly, you were best.
is it possible ?
wondrous heavy .
o god of battles ,  steel my soldiers' hearts .
think of this ,  good peers ,  but as a thing of custom .
how now, my love!
will not the mayor then and his brethren come ?
hang her!
what is your will ?
i do not know from what part of the world i should be greeted, if not from lord hamlet.
no child but hero; she’s his only heir .
let it alone, thou fool; it is but trash.
gives me the lie i' the throat ,  as deep as to the lungs ?
carry me to the jail ?
love is merely a madness and ,  i tell you ,  deserves as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do ,  and the reason why they are not so punished and cured is that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers are in love ,  too .
you will compel me then to read the will ?
give me your blessing .
it is not so express'd, but what of that?
aside] why speaks my father so urgently?
be of good cheer ,  youth .
who would fardels bear ,  to grunt and sweat under a weary life ,  but that the dread of something after death ,  the undiscovered country from whose bourn no traveler returns ,  puzzles the will and makes us rather bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not of ?
cassio, i love thee; but never more be officer of mine.
out of these convertites there is much matter to be heard and learned .
why ,  what make you here ?
though it appear a little out of fashion ,  there is much care and valor in this welshman .
thou hast seen these signs .
that’s not so good now .
what’s thy passion ?
hark thee, dardanius.
you have made me offer of sicily ,  sardinia .
i'th’ commonwealth i would by contraries execute all things ,  for no kind of traffic would i admit; no name of magistrate; letters should not be known; riches ,  poverty ,  and use of service ,  none; contract ,  succession ,  bourn ,  bound of land ,  tilth ,  vineyard ,  none; no use of metal ,  corn ,  or wine ,  or oil; no occupation; all men idle ,  all; and women too ,  but innocent and pure; no sovereignty— [to antonio] yet he would be king on't .
seek none, conspiracy; hide it in smiles and affability; for if thou path, thy native semblance on, not erebus itself were dim enough to hide thee from prevention.
i say ,  this house is as dark as ignorance ,  though ignorance were as dark as hell .
thou naughty knave ,  what trade ?
then tell me ,  what makes he upon the seas ?
but i pray ,  can you read any thing you see ?
good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.
he will come straight .
and what of all this ?
i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
i pray you, now receive them.
hold off the earth awhile, till i have caught her once more in mine arms.
romeo !
my queen and eros have by their brave instruction got upon me a nobleness in record .
sin from thy lips ?
had he done so ?
then let your will attend on their accords .
when came this to you ?
come ,  sir ,  to dinner . —dromio ,  keep the gate .
i must not say no .
o ye immortal gods !
would that he were gone !
so they do nothing ,  ’tis a venial slip .
there is no vice so simple, but assumes some mark of virtue on his outward parts.
there's two or three of us have seen strange sights .
what ho ,  the emperor’s guard !
pompey thrives in our idleness .
of what color ?
so guildenstern and rosencrantz go to't.
you shall never take her without her answer unless you take her without her tongue .
in the mean time, against thou shalt awake, shall romeo by my letters know our drift; and hither shall he come; and he and i will watch thy waking, and that very night shall romeo bear thee hence to mantua.
i tell thee ,  litio ,  this is wonderful !
o heavens ,  that such companions thou’dst unfold ,  and put in every honest hand a whip to lash the rascals naked through the world even from the east to th' west !
art thou so hasty ?
yes ,  you have seen cassio and she together .
i am sure the duke will never grant this forfeiture to hold .
come ,  sir ,  will you aboard ?
sir ,  he dined with her there ,  at the porpentine .
pray god ,  i say ,  i prove a needless coward !
stand you directly in antonio's way ,  when he doth run his course .
pray you do not ,  sir .
what ,  have you forgot me ?
plague on ’t ,  an i thought he had been valiant and so cunning in fence ,  i’d have seen him damned ere i’d have challenged him .
doth not the day break here ?
i’ll tell you in your ear .
i'll put another question to thee.
there’s the cunning of it .
i heard thee speak me a speech once ,  but it was never acted; or if it was ,  not above once; for the play ,  i remember ,  pleased not the million ,  'twas caviary to the general; but it was—as i received it ,  and others ,  whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine—an excellent play ,  well digested in the scenes ,  set down with as much mod -  esty as cunning .
why ,  we shall make him mad indeed .
why ,  she is within .
and thane of cawdor too: went it not so ?
approach .
and now my lady worm's ,  chapless ,  and knock'd about the mazard with a sexton's spade .
be not so long to speak .
i thank his grace .
who's within ?
alas ,  he is betray'd ,  and i undone !
hark you ,  sir .
not a whit ,  touchstone .
tell antony brutus is ta'en .
yet you began rudely .
fear comes upon me .
groan?
come on, nerissa; i have work in hand, that you yet know not of; we'll see our husbands before they think of us.
and then he drew a dial from his poke and ,  looking on it with lackluster eye ,  says very wisely ,   “ it is ten o'clock .
thou art a villain !
bid him therefore consider of his ransom ,  which must proportion the losses we have borne ,  the subjects we have lost ,  the disgrace we have digested ,  which ,  in weight to reanswer ,  his pettiness would bow under .
now ,  what news on the rialto ?
is thy union here ?
he stays upon your will .
good morrow to you both.
i would i had your bond; for i perceive a weak bond holds you; i'll not trust your word.
if you cannot ,  give thanks you have lived so long and make yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of the hour ,  if it so hap . —cheerly ,  good hearts ! —out of our way ,  i say .
it is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will .
nor send you out o' the way?
come hither, nurse.
emilia, run you to the citadel, and tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd!
hie thee, gentle jew.
monster ,  i do smell all horse piss ,  at which my nose is in great indignation .
speak to him .
give me to know how this foul rout began ,  who set it on ,  and he that is approved in this offense ,  though he had twinn'd with me ,  both at a birth ,  shall lose me .
awakening] what angel wakes me from my flowery bed ?
come on.
dull thing ,  i say so .
i am sorry to hear this .
why should he stay ,  whom love doth press to go ?
in faith ,  my hand meant nothing to my sword .
they are wise and honorable ,  and will ,  no doubt ,  with reasons answer you .
therefore go .
i'm lost in it ,  my lord .
where art thou?
madam ,  not yet .
happiest of all is that her gentle spirit commits itself to yours to be directed as from her lord ,  her governor ,  her king .
down ,  therefore ,  and beg mercy of the duke .
true; and a goose for his discretion.
things base and vile ,  holding no quantity ,  love can transpose to form and dignity .
why ,  antony .
you ,  nick bottom ,  are set down for pyramus .
most certain ,  if you are she ,  you do usurp yourself ,  for what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve .
something too much of this .
i thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a lion .
so i charmed their ears that ,  calflike ,  they my lowing followed through toothed briers ,  sharp furzes ,  pricking gorse ,  and thorns ,  which entered their frail shins .
first kiss me ,  kate ,  and we will .
i once did hold it, as our statists do, a baseness to write fair, and labour'd much how to forget that learning; but, sir, now it did me yeoman's service.
no way but this, killing myself, to die upon a kiss.
what further woe conspires against mine age?
i like not that .
in faith ,  they are as true of heart as we .
exchange forgiveness with me ,  noble hamlet .
o charmian ,  i will never go from hence .
i'll follow thee, and make a heaven of hell, to die upon the hand i love so well.
i will requite your loves .
fail not our feast .
i'll keep my oath, patiently to bear my wroth.
what should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
what will you give us ?
why are you breathless, and why stare you so?
what makes him here ?
my lord approaches .
a man no mightier than thyself or me in personal action ,  yet prodigious grown ,  and fearful as these strange eruptions are .
we will speak further.
i cannot drink too much of brutus' love .
it is a tale told by an idiot ,  full of sound and fury ,  signifying nothing .
well, if fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear.—father, come.
could you on this fair mountain leave to feed ,  and batten on this moor ?
a fair woman !
what ,  man !
thou'rt mad to say it!
by my faith ,  he is very swift and sententious .
were they not forced with those that should be ours ,  we might have met them dareful ,  beard to beard ,  and beat them backward home .
what men daily do ,  not knowing what they do !
i know his gait; 'tis he .
are you not well ?
i warrant thee my man's as true as steel .
admired miranda !
i will look him and privily relieve him .
a halter gratis ,  nothing else ,  for god’s sake .
dear my lord ,  be not familiar with her .
i wonder what it bodes .
your voice shall be as strong as any man's in the disposing of new dignities .
a piece of him .
o rome ,  i make thee promise ,  if the redress will follow ,  thou receivest thy full petition at the hand of brutus !
but if the gods themselves did see her then, when she saw pyrrhus make malicious sport in mincing with his sword her husband's limbs, the instant burst of clamour that she made unless things mortal move them not at all would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven and passion in the gods.
sirs ,  stand you all without .
not her that chides ,  sir ,  at any hand ,  i pray .
it is a poison tempered by himself .
but repetition of what thou hast marred .
celerity is never more admired than by the negligent .
my friend, thy husband, honest, honest iago.
why should not i then prosecute my right?
canst thou so daff me ?
a hall ,  a hall !
follow my mother .
but i can tell why a snail has a house .
why ,  so he doth ,  when he delivers you from this earth’s thralldom to the joys of heaven .
my salad days ,  when i was green in judgment ,  cold in blood ,  to say as i said then .
o heavens!
what cheer ?
o god, your only jig-maker!
from athens is her house remote seven leagues ,  and she respects me as her only son .
why ,  at her father’s .
why had i one ?
i will not trouble you as yet to question you about your fortunes . — give us some music ,  and ,  good cousin ,  sing .
nothing but sit and sit ,  and eat and eat !
you shall be king .
true ,  madam; he ,  of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon ,  was the best deserving a fair lady .
and hath given countenance to his speech, my lord, with almost all the holy vows of heaven.
i will deliver you or else lie for you .
what a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of england to mope with his fat - brained followers so far out of his knowledge .
what would you with her ,  sir ?
to alonso] sir, you may thank yourself for this [to alonso] sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss, that would not bless our europe with your daughter, but rather lose her to an african, where she, at least, is banished from your eye, who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
budge not ,  ”  says my conscience .
and now you know my meaning .
pray you, look in.
a play there is, my lord, some ten words long, which is as brief as i have known a play; but by ten words, my lord, it is too long, which makes it tedious; for in all the play there is not one word apt, one player fitted.
and so she did .
it shall be to your good ,  for my father’s house and all the revenue that was old sir rowland’s will i estate upon you ,  and here live and die a shepherd .
how came you, cassio, by that handkerchief that was my wife's?
here will i rest me till the break of day .
the business of this man looks out of him .
o god ,  she comes . —o honey nurse ,  what news ?
no pains ,  sir .
prithee ,  dispatch .
for i can give his humor the true bent ,  and i will bring him to the capitol .
they’re busy within .
those linen cheeks of thine are counselors to fear .
i know, iago, thy honesty and love doth mince this matter, making it light to cassio.
who is it?
what profane wretch art thou ?
a little water clears us of this deed .
help, ho!
farewell ,  my lords .
o ,  did he so ?
in this slumbery agitation ,  besides her walking and other actual performances ,  what ,  at any time ,  have you heard her say ?
you shall hear more by midnight .
for lead ?
thou liest, thou shag-ear'd villain!
god 'ild you for your last company .
hold ,  my hand .
why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me!
marry, you may partly hope that your father got you not, that you are not the jew's daughter.
what should i say, sweet lady?
whither wilt thou lead me?
my soul is full of discord and dismay .
where is my mother ?
run hence ,  proclaim ,  cry it about the streets .
why do you speak so faintly ?
how now ,  my lord !
o, then i see queen mab hath been with you.
well ,  get thee gone .
i take it, your own business calls on you, and you embrace the occasion to depart.
on a moderate pace i have since arrived but hither .
who's there ?
why sinks that cauldron ?
we’ll visit caliban ,  my slave who never yields us kind answer .
what sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand that i yet know not?
tell me why .
tie up my love's tongue ,  bring him silently .
titinius' face is upward.
o bosom black as death !
i should sin to think but nobly of my grandmother: good wombs have borne bad sons.
nay ,  we must think men are not gods ,  i was ,  unhandsome warrior as i am ,  arraigning his unkindness with my soul; but now i find i had suborn'd the witness ,  and he's indicted falsely .
rest you merry!
impart .
if that her breath will mist or stain the stone ,  why then ,  she lives .
goes fleance with you?
therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh .
peace yet again .
the people knows it ,  and have now received his accusations .
gentlemen, for shame!
and the best of me is diligence .
so should he look that seems to speak things strange.
sir ?
i cannot but remember such things were ,  that were most precious to me .
what, man!
i gave thee mine before thou didst request it ,  and yet i would it were to give again .
jesu ,  what haste !
tell me ,  good my friend ,  what torch is yond that vainly lends his light to grubs and eyeless skulls ?
how does lieutenant cassio?
happy is your grace ,  that can translate the stubbornness of fortune into so quiet and so sweet a style .
but if you be remembered ,  i did not bid you mar it to the time .
she that i spake of ,  our great captain's captain ,  left in the conduct of the bold iago; whose footing here anticipates our thoughts a se'nnight's speed .
no, my lord.
away ,  then !
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ?
i shall be saved by my husband; he hath made me a christian .
ha!
were you not sent for ?
what night - rule now about this haunted grove ?
what form ?
and this.
it is not possible.
regard titinius ,  and tell me what thou notest about the field .
while one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
speak .
what ,  an advocate for an imposter ?
alas ,  alas !
no ,  sir ,  ’tis in grain; noah’s flood could not do it .
ho !
i will weep for thee ,  for this revolt of thine methinks is like another fall of man . —their faults are open .
how ,  how i pray you ?
i was the more deceived .
o ,  my lord ,  if my duty be too bold ,  my love is too unmannerly .
i pray you, fail me not.
i have a daughter—have while she is mine— who in her duty and obedience, mark, hath given me this.
from this time such i account thy love.
good reasons must of force give place to better .
but soft ,  i pray you .
it might ,  my lord .
my lord ,  what is your will ?
and so have i addressed me .
thunder] [thunder] alas ,  the storm is come again !
out, tawny tartar, out!
for i had then laid wormwood to my dug ,  sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall .
send the deed after me ,  and i will sign it .
a very handsome man .
will you sup with me tonight ,  casca ?
i'm out of patience .
and when you saw his chariot but appear ,  have you not made an universal shout ,  that tiber trembled underneath her banks to hear the replication of your sounds made in her concave shores ?
i can see yet without spectacles ,  and i see no such matter .
no ,  no .
is he come home yet ?
well thought upon .
come ,  come .
come, come, come, come, give me your hand.
she’s dead as earth .
he gives you upon his knees a thousand thanks ,  and he esteems himself happy that he hath fall'n into the hands of one ,  as he thinks ,  the most brave ,  valorous ,  and thrice -  worthy seigneur of england .
he hath confess'd .
oh ,  whither hast thou led me ,  egypt ?
caesar ,  beware of brutus; take heed of cassius; come not near casca; have an eye to cinna; trust not trebonius; mark it well metellus cimber; decius brutus loves thee not; thou hast wronged caius ligarius .
ay ,  on the front .
i'th’ commonwealth i would by contraries execute all things, for no kind of traffic would i admit; no name of magistrate; letters should not be known; riches, poverty, and use of service, none; contract, succession, bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none; no use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil; no occupation; all men idle, all; and women too, but innocent and pure; no sovereignty— [to antonio] yet he would be king on't.
get thee gone and hire those horses.
an it had not fallen flat-long.
why ,  then is my pump well - flower'd .
and ,  see your wife is with him .
tell her i am arrested in the street ,  and that shall bail me .
know you the hand ?
was this inserted to make interest good ?
how green !
in this last tempest.
for if such actions may have passage free ,  bond - slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be .
well .
it may be these apparent prodigies ,  the unaccustom'd terror of this night ,  and the persuasion of his augurers may hold him from the capitol today .
will you tell me that?
i will not shame myself to give you this .
what would you say to me now ,  an i were your very ,  very rosalind ?
the will of man is by his reason sway'd ,  and reason says you are the worthier maid .
piteous predicament !
come you from old bellario ?
but your news is not true .
good my lord ,  if i have any grace or power to move you his present reconciliation take .
where are the vile beginners of this fray ?
the one of them imports the death of cassio to be undertook by roderigo .
come ,  shall we hear this music ?
it harrows me with fear and wonder.
why ,  thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast .
nor do we find him forward to be sounded ,  but with a crafty madness keeps aloof when we would bring him on to some confession of his true state .
whither away ?
come ,  boy ,  with me .
o, then i see that madmen have no ears.
over hill, over dale, thorough bush, thorough brier, over park, over pale, thorough flood, thorough fire, i do wander every where, swifter than the moon's sphere; and i serve the fairy queen, to dew her orbs upon the green.
poor tom shall lead thee .
to ferdinand] if i have too austerely punished you ,  [to ferdinand] if i have too your compensation makes amends ,  for i have given you here a third of mine own life— or that for which i live—who once again i tender to thy hand .
let us go in; and charge us there upon inter'gatories, and we will answer all things faithfully.
is not this stephano, my drunken butler?
i pray you ,  let not my jealousies be your dishonors ,  but mine own safeties .
would it be better ,  madam ,  than i am ?
no ,  truly .
no matter .
my liege ,  they are not yet come back .
in few ,  ophelia ,  do not believe his vows; for they are brokers ,  not of that dye which their investments show ,  but mere implorators of unholy suits ,  breathing like sanctified and pious bonds ,  the better to beguile .
hence will i to my ghostly father's cell, his help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
fled to england ?
the hand of little employment hath the daintier sense .
do not approach till thou dost hear me call .
to answer that, i should confess to you.
how does my royal lord ?
the dauphin ,  whom of succors we entreated ,  returns us that his powers are yet not ready to raise so great a siege .
tis very good; i must be circumstanced .
no ,  my lord ,  i saw nothing .
this island's mine, by sycorax my mother, which thou tak'st from me.
you have been hotly called for .
let our officers have notice what we purpose .
what is she?
i will bandy with thee in faction .
on such a full sea are we now afloat ,  and we must take the current when it serves or lose our ventures .
either heaven with lightning strike the murderer dead ,  or earth gape open wide and eat him quick ,  as thou dost swallow up this good king’s blood ,  which his hell - governed arm hath butcherèd !
were of an age .
the hearts of old gave hands ,  but our new heraldry is hands ,  not hearts .
nothing .
if thou hast her not i' the end ,  call me  “ cut .  ”   if i do not ,  never trust me ,  take it how you will .
hear it not, duncan, for it is a knell that summons thee to heaven, or to hell.
tom’s a -  cold .
i do not cross you ,  but i will do so .
false face must hide what the false heart doth know .
run to the capitol ,  and nothing else ?
i am aweary of this moon .
thou know'st that banquo and his fleance lives .
so much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
therefore turn and draw .
i hope he is much grown since last i saw him .
the town will rise .
o dainty duck !
say’st me so ,  friend ?
richard !
charmian !
fall to ’t yarely ,  or we run ourselves aground .
caesar ?
why then ,  the beef ,  and let the mustard rest .
who comes here ?
what ,  up and down ,  carved like an apple tart ?
it is so.
a man that all his time hath founded his good fortunes on your love ,  shared dangers with you— the handkerchief !
so guildenstern and rosencrantz go to't .
thence i have followed it ,  or it hath drawn me rather .
fetch me the handkerchief—my mind misgives .
how am i false?
you have broken the article of your oath ,  which you shall never have tongue to charge me with .
that did i ,  my lord ,  and was accounted a good actor .
who sent you hither ?
do you know, sirrah, where lieutenant cassio lies?
if his fitness speaks ,  mine is ready ,  now or whensoever ,  provided i be so able as now .
scape being drunk for want of wine .
this disturbèd sky is not to walk in .
how poor are they that have not patience !
get you gone, you dwarf; you minimus, of hind'ring knot-grass made; you bead, you acorn.
now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber .
give me my robe .
most humbly do i take my leave ,  my lord .
why ,  anything; an honorable murderer ,  if you will ,  for nought did i in hate ,  but all in honor .
what handkerchief ?
what wouldst thou ?
nor you ,  as we are ,  loyal .
accurs'd ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day !
let him answer me . — come ,  follow me ,  boy .
i am yet unknown to woman, never was forsworn, scarcely have coveted what was mine own, at no time broke my faith, would not betray the devil to his fellow, and delight no less in truth than life.
let’s see for means .
i see you all are bent to set against me for your merriment.
good sir ,  i do in friendship counsel you to leave this place .
i will run ,  fiend .
i am half afeard thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee ,  thou spend’st such high - day wit in praising him . — come ,  come ,  nerissa ,  for i long to see quick cupid’s post that comes so mannerly .
the prince my brother hath outgrown me far .
let not the heavens hear these telltale women rail on the lord’s anointed .
i know not .
what is the matter, think you?
those that are married already ,  all but one ,  shall live .
you shall hear more by midnight.
thou know’st not me .
what ,  urge you your petitions in the street ?
happily met ,  my lady and my wife !
yet more quarrelling with occasion !
there’s few or none will entertain it .
a dog of the house of montague moves me .
i hear thou must ,  and nothing may prorogue it ,  on thursday next be married to this county .
let us go in ,  and charge us there upon interr'gatories ,  and we will answer all things faithfully .
i say thou hast belied mine innocent child .
if thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument; i'll take it from thee; and, good boy, good night.
what ,  and my old venetian friend salerio ?
a pair of stocks ,  you rogue !
yet, if thou swear'st, thou mayst prove false.
boy !
be collected .
complain unto the duke of this indignity .
raise all my kindred.
fair and noble hostess ,  we are your guest tonight .
for his bounty ,  there was no winter in ’t ,  an autumn ’twas that grew the more by reaping .
well ,  forward ,  forward !
you have it full ,  benedick .
even so, lucilius.
say he is sick .
what say you ?
of princes in this number and nobles bearing banners ,  there lie dead one hundred twenty - six .
and their tongues rot that speak against us !
in love ?
before the time i did lysander see, seem'd athens as a paradise to me.
not today ,  o lord ,  oh ,  not today ,  think not upon the fault my father made in compassing the crown .
when caesar says ,   “ do this ,  ”  it is performed .
why ,  you gave no gold to me !
my language !
when our actions do not ,  our fears do make us traitors .
hark!
so ,  so ,  so .
i follow him to serve my turn upon him .
what misadventure is so early up, that calls our person from our morning rest?
hark ye ,  your romeo will be here at night .
o me ,  my heart ,  my rising heart !
i thank your lordship, you have got me one.
why then ,  your other senses grow imperfect by your eyes' anguish .
what should he be?
his discretion ,  i am sure ,  cannot carry his valor ,  for the goose carries not the fox .
nay ,  good lieutenant !
it is, it is!
you know no centaur ?
nay ,  an thou'lt mouth ,  i'll rant as well as thou .
i will plague them all, even to roaring.
use it for my love some other way than swearing by it .
if you were men, as men you are in show, you would not use a gentle lady so: to vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts, when i am sure you hate me with your hearts.
i am your own for ever .
have not saints lips ,  and holy palmers too ?
moody ?
the world is grown so bad that wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch .
what was it you told me of today ,  that your niece beatrice was in love with signor benedick ?
my lord and lady ,  it is now our time ,  that have stood by ,  and seen our wishes prosper ,  to cry ,  good joy; good joy ,  my lord and lady !
most miserable hour that e'er time saw in lasting labor of his pilgrimage .
tell him that by his license fortinbras craves the conveyance of a promised march over his kingdom .
to stephano] lo ,  how he mocks me !
here's such a coil!
you knew ,  none so well ,  none so well as you ,  of my daughter's flight .
spake you of caesar ?
what shall i swear by ?
discuss unto me: art thou officer or art thou base ,  common ,  and popular ?
o wonderful ,  wonderful ,  and most wonderful wonderful ,  and yet again wonderful ,  and after that ,  out of all whooping !
what find i here ?
o julius caesar, thou art mighty yet!
i am glad that my weak words have struck but thus much show of fire from brutus.
beat me ?
is there no play to ease the anguish of a torturing hour ?
hang there ,  my verse ,  in witness of my love .
let me go .
that i might sleep out this great gap of time my antony is away .
o most courageous day !
i am feared in field and town .
that by proscription and bills of outlawry octavius, antony, and lepidus have put to death an hundred senators.
oh ,  then i see that madmen have no ears .
no .
you have served me well ,  and kings have been your fellows .
by cheshu ,  he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the world in the disciplines of the pristine wars of the romans .
therefore i will depart unkissed .
i desire no more delight than to be under sail and gone tonight .
i’ll bring you thither ,  my lord ,  if you’ll vouchsafe me .
that thou shalt see the difference of our spirit ,  i pardon thee thy life before thou ask it .
true !
nay ,  come again ,  good kate .
but it would warm his spirits to hear from me you had left antony and put yourself under his shroud ,  the universal landlord .
call you me  “ fair ”  ?
such bugs and goblins in my life ,  that on the supervise ,  no leisure bated ,  no ,  not to stay the grinding of the axe ,  my head should be struck off .
it was he that made the overture of thy treasons to us ,  who is too good to pity thee .
faith, here it is.
othello's occupation's gone!
what shall i swear by?
this fortification ,  gentlemen ,  shall we see't ?
thou drivest me past the bounds of maiden's patience.
speak thou now.
and is ’t not to be damned to let this canker of our nature come in further evil ?
good ancient ,  you are welcome .
it is not well done ,  mark you now ,  to take the tales out of my mouth ere it is made and finished .
indeed ?
this is signior antonio .
before you hazard ,  for in choosing wrong i lose your company .
is he alone?
to one of your receiving enough is shown .
no, coz, i rather weep.
sooth ,  madam ,  i hear nothing .
no, marry.
tis very strange.
your plantain leaf is excellent for that.
catesby ,  fly to the duke .
you shall do marvellous wisely, good reynaldo, before you visit him, to make inquire of his behaviour.
fear me not .
if it were so ,  it was a grievous fault ,  and grievously hath caesar answered it .
if any such there be, heaven pardon him!
will ’t please your highness walk ?
we have scorched the snake ,  not killed it .
and trinculo is reeling ripe .
this is the motley - minded gentleman that i have so often met in the forest .
no .
he does hear me ,  and that he does i weep .
and mine a hundred and forty .
came they not by you?
this will prove a brave kingdom to me, where i shall have my music for nothing.
most reverend signior ,  do you know my voice ?
your mind is tossing on the ocean; there, where your argosies, with portly sail,— like signiors and rich burghers on the flood, or, as it were, the pageants of the sea,— do overpeer the petty traffickers, that curt'sy to them, do them reverence, as they fly by them with their woven wings.
she has light by her continually; ’tis her command.
it is backed like a weasel.
o, here's a wit of cheverel, that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad!
or do you but counterfeit ?
where should they be set else ?
o, they are our friends!
take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
i do beseech you.
my liege and madam ,  to expostulate what majesty should be ,  what duty is ,  why day is day ,  night night ,  and time is time ,  were nothing but to waste night ,  day ,  and time .
then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her favours?
this physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
i am afraid he will chastise me.
alack, i had forgot!
why ,  then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so .
ay ,  i do .
but now i see our lances are but straws ,  our strength as weak ,  our weakness past compare ,  that seeming to be most which we indeed least are .
let his shames quickly drive him to rome .
i thank thee ,  good sir john ,  with all my heart .
hark ,  how these instruments summon to supper .
they say edgar ,  his banished son ,  is with the earl of kent in germany .
if the cat will after kind ,  so ,  be sure ,  will rosalind .
what likelihood of his amendment ,  lords ?
i will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me i am a drunkard!
were you well served ,  you would be taught your duty .
i am glad to see thee well .
he does hear me, and that he does i weep; myself am naples, who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld the king my father wrecked.
o ,  vengeance !
now ,  my titania; wake you ,  my sweet queen .
but what will you be called ?
well i know the man .
why, fear not, man, i will not forfeit it; within these two months,—that's a month before this bond expires,—i do expect return of thrice three times the value of this bond.
but why should honor outlive honesty ?
yes, caliban her son.
o, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's archmock, to lip a wanton in a secure couch, and to suppose her chaste!
they follow the king’s pleasure .
they were suborned .
yet brutus says he was ambitious, and sure he is an honorable man.
a heavy summons lies like lead upon me, and yet i would not sleep.
let's withdraw, my lord.
what's your will ?
art thou of cornish crew ?
how now ,  my pretty knave ?
now, in the names of all the gods at once, upon what meat doth this our caesar feed that he is grown so great?
i will lay trust upon thee ,  and thou shalt find a dearer father in my love .
well ,  do your discretion .
how now ,  my lord !
that island of england breeds very valiant creatures .
baptista is a noble gentleman ,  to whom my father is not all unknown ,  and were his daughter fairer than she is ,  she may more suitors have ,  and me for one .
i'll tell you what you shall do .
an old hare hoar, and an old hare hoar, is very good meat in lent; but a hare that is hoar is too much for a score when it hoars ere it be spent.
tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee.
and why should caesar be a tyrant then?
what a foolish duty call you this ?
o ,  she was heavenly true !
so he served the second ,  and so the third .
age ,  thou art shamed !
where is he gone?
but while thou livest ,  keep a good tongue in thy head .
follow!
here was a caesar !
but ,  come what may ,  i do adore thee so that danger shall seem sport ,  and i will go .
i will the banner from a trumpet take and use it for my haste .
aside.
thou shouldst know there were a heart in egypt .
what is thy name ?
tis a pageant ,  to keep us in false gaze .
come, go we to the king; our power is ready; our lack is nothing but our leave.
no ,  to my cabin .
and hell gnaw his bones!
what is she ?
it is backed like a weasel .
anon, anon!
here’s the manner of ’t: i’ th’ marketplace ,  on a tribunal silvered ,  cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold were publicly enthroned .
affliction is enamour’d of thy parts, and thou art wedded to calamity.
he is composed and framed of treachery ,  and fled he is upon this villainy .
she gave it him ,  and he hath given it his whore .
indeed they are disproportion'd; my letters say a hundred and seven galleys .
the king enacts more wonders than a man ,  daring an opposite to every danger .
why romeo ,  art thou mad ?
where lies he ?
or what are you ?
no ,  it is struck .
and ,  good night ,  sweet friend .
breaks my pate across?
oh ,  the people in the street cry  “ romeo ,  ”  some  “ juliet ,  ”  and some  “ paris ,  ”  and all run with open outcry toward our monument .
persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter to this detested groom .
good grumio ,  fetch it me .
gentlemen all ,  i do suspect this trash to be a party in this injury .
for i mine own gained knowledge should profane if i would time expend with such a snipe but for my sport and profit .
be better at thy leisure .
alas ,  poor country !
how canst thou urge god’s dreadful law to us when thou hast broke it in such dear degree ?
oh ,  that’s well said—the chair !
swear by this bottle how thou cam'st hither .
why, as by lot, god wot, and then, you know, it came to pass, as most like it was.— the first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look where my abridgment comes.
i wish ,  forbear .
this was sometime a paradox, but now the time gives it proof.
and so it is.
have i thought long to see this morning's face ,  and doth it give me such a sight as this ?
one of them rates all that is won and lost .
bear’st thou her face in mind ?
what life is in that to be the death of this marriage ?
this will prove a brave kingdom to me ,  where i shall have my music for nothing .
i do not find that thou deal’st justly with me .
and if thou prate of mountains let them throw millions of acres on us ,  till our ground ,  singeing his pate against the burning zone ,  make ossa like a wart !
thy spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords in our own proper entrails.
come to what is important in ’t .
oh !
god knows i loved my niece ,  and she is dead ,  slandered to death by villains that dare as well answer a man indeed as i dare take a serpent by the tongue . — boys ,  apes ,  braggarts ,  jacks ,  milksops !
come you from old bellario ?
help ,  help !
why ,  thou debauched fish ,  thou ,  was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack as i to - day ?
prithee ,  do not turn me about .
alas ,  thrice gentle cassio !
where is the county's page that rais'd the watch?
my naked weapon is out.
see, who comes here?
your reason ?
i am glad to see thee well.
o ,  full of scorpions is my mind ,  dear wife !
i will go seek him . —cassio ,  walk hereabout .
or ,  if you will ,  come home to me ,  and i will wait for you .
my lord, what is your will?
being thus benetted round with villainies— or i could make a prologue to my brains, they had begun the play—i sat me down, devised a new commission, wrote it fair.
made she no verbal question ?
yet again ?
by hercules ,  i think i am i’ th’ right .
so foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell .
do not presume too much upon my love; i may do that i shall be sorry for.
a very pleasing night to honest men .
this is as't should be.
there to meet with macbeth .
nay then ,  let the devil wear black ,  for i’ll have a suit of sables .
have you not hurt your head ?
what's done cannot be undone.
i'll to him; he is hid at laurence’ cell.
if it assume my noble father's person ,  i'll speak to it ,  though hell itself should gape and bid me hold my peace .
i understand not what you mean by this .
the west yet glimmers with some streaks of day .
o sweet my mother ,  cast me not away !
but i have none.
marry ,  at the very next turning turn of no hand ,  but turn down indirectly to the jew’s house .
he finished indeed his mortal act that day that made my sister thirteen years .
i thank god ,  i thank god !
did you ne'er hear say ,  two may keep counsel ,  putting one away ?
o ,  fie ,  fie ,  fie !
i pardon that man’s life .
what in the contrary ?
i desire you of more acquaintance ,  good master mustardseed .
unhappy fortune !
good night .
by providence divine.
she in th’ habiliments of the goddess isis that day appeared ,  and oft before gave audience ,  as ’tis reported ,  so .
to business that we love we rise betimes and go to ’t with delight .
if it be ,  why seems it so particular with thee ?
how with mine honor may i give him that which i have given to you ?
the measure done ,  i'll watch her place of stand and ,  touching hers ,  make blessed my rude hand .
romeo?
to every article.
well ,  let that rest .
but ,  hold thee ,  take this garland on thy brow; thy brutus bid me give it thee ,  and i will do his bidding .
oh ,  no .
tis a villain ,  sir ,  i do not love to look on .
that's not an office for a friend, my lord.
scratching could not make it worse an ’twere such a face as yours were .
marry, to—come, captain, will you go?
then saw you not his face ?
prodigious birth of love it is to me that i must love a loathed enemy .
as proper men as ever trod upon neat’s leather have gone upon my handiwork .
if not ,  elsewhere they meet with charity .
o god!
if ever i did dream of such a matter, abhor me.
it is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
o strange !
is the day so young ?
we have not spoke us yet of torchbearers.
then let us say, you are sad, because you are not merry: and 'twere as easy for you to laugh, and leap, and say you are merry, because you are not sad.
except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds ,  or memorize another golgotha ,  i cannot tell— but i am faint; my gashes cry for help .
cousin hamlet, you know the wager?
dear duff ,  i prithee ,  contradict thyself ,  and say it is not so .
wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant ?
the turkish preparation makes for rhodes; so was i bid report here to the state by signior angelo .
alas ,  my lord ,  your wisdom is consumed in confidence .
i have possessed your grace of what i purpose ,  and by our holy sabbath have i sworn to have the due and forfeit of my bond .
heavens ,  i am the best of them that speak this speech ,  were i but where ’tis spoken .
for none ,  neither .
cassio, my lord, hath kill'd a young venetian call'd roderigo.
o ,  yet defend me ,  friends .
i protest i love thee .
but ,  roderigo ,  if thou hast that in thee indeed ,  which i have greater reason to believe now than ever—i mean purpose ,  courage and valor—this night show it .
if by your art, my dearest father, you have put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
tell me ,  and dally not: where is the money ?
and smelt so ?
for what purpose ,  love ?
o wall ,  full often hast thou heard my moans ,  for parting my fair pyramus and me !
truly to speak ,  and with no addition ,  we go to gain a little patch of ground that hath in it no profit but the name .
is yonder the man ?
hear me, for i will speak.
strumpet ,  i come !
it waves me still.
arm ,  arm ,  and out !
i go to take my stand to see him pass on to the capitol.
remember it, my lord!
with nought but truth.
hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
a pickaxe and a spade, a spade, for and a shrouding sheet; o, a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet.
signior, is all your family within?
and art thou living ,  stephano ?
eight score eight hours?
not mad, but bound more than a madman is; shut up in prison, kept without my food, whipp'd and tormented and– god-eve, good fellow.
all will be well .
go to, carry this.
the dauphin longs for morning .
i hear him mock the luck of caesar ,  which the gods give men to excuse their after wrath . —husband ,  i come !
i know this act shows horrible and grim .
there’s not a piece of feather in our host— good argument ,  i hope ,  we will not fly— and time hath worn us into slovenry .
signior ,  is all your family within ?
no.
his forward voice now is to speak well of his friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract .
what means your lordship ?
my lady will hang thee for thy absence .
is't possible ?
toad, that under cold stone days and nights has thirty-one swelter'd venom sleeping got, boil thou first i’ the charmed pot.
i am the man .
the sweetest sleep and fairest - boding dreams that ever entered in a drowsy head have i since your departure had ,  my lords .
judge me ,  you gods !
i cannot say  “ whore ,  ”  it does abhor me now i speak the word .
o thou dull moor!
thy drugs are quick .
o ,  belike his majesty hath some intent that you shall be new christened in the tower .
yea ,  and i will weep a while longer .
my soul is full of sorrow .
o woeful day !
the strangeness of your story put heaviness in me.
truly then i fear you are damned both by father and mother .
well .
once more ,  on pain of death ,  all men depart .
o ,  the heavens !
well contented .
are you a married man or a bachelor ?
will't please you go ,  my lord ?
mend ”  me ,  thou saucy fellow ?
mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not endure a further view .
well ,  i’ll be revenged as i may .
the sooner ,  sweet ,  for you .
o ,  sixpence ,  that i had o' wednesday last to pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper ?
i am not gamesome .
in faith ,  too much; i find it still when i have list to sleep: marry ,  before your ladyship ,  i grant she puts her tongue a little in her heart and chides with thinking .
away ,  and mock the time with fairest show .
that handkerchief which i so loved and gave thee thou gavest to cassio .
but ,  othello ,  speak .
and what says my conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
hark, how these instruments summon to supper!
now to my word: it is ‘adieu ,  adieu !
then would to god that i had never seen't !
stay ,  tybalt ,  stay !
there’s five to one .
here .
but i pray you ,  who is his companion ?
farewell.
prithee say true !
o ,  yes ,  and soundless too ,  for you have stol'n their buzzing ,  antony ,  and very wisely threat before you sting .
and you are well met ,  signior hortensio .
treason!
caesar !
you are not ignorant of what excellence laertes is—
why, whose is it?
o ,  let us have him ,  for his silver hairs will purchase us a good opinion and buy men’s voices to commend our deeds .
such a wagoner as phaeton would whip you to the west and bring in cloudy night immediately.
haste thee for thy life .
stay not ,  be gone .
an if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
his reared arm crested the world .
the orchard walls are high and hard to climb ,  and the place death ,  considering who thou art ,  if any of my kinsmen find thee here .
fare thee well .
a lean cheek ,  which you have not; a blue eye and sunken ,  which you have not; an unquestionable spirit ,  which you have not; a beard neglected ,  which you have not—but i pardon you for that ,  for simply your having in beard is a younger brother’s revenue .
i hear horses.
this is the tune of our catch ,  played by the picture of nobody .
is it fit, the three-fold world divided, he should stand one of the three to share it?
wherein hath caesar thus deserved your loves ?
nay ,  guiltiness will speak ,  though tongues were out of use .
that were a kind of bastard hope ,  indeed; so ,  the sins of my mother should be visited upon me .
sojourn in mantua.
what!
can heaven be so envious?
ha ,  ha !
where ,  my lord ?
ay ,  widow dido .
whose solid virtue the shot of accident nor dart of chance could neither graze nor pierce ?
come ,  tailor ,  let us see these ornaments .
how was this seal'd ?
knock knock knock, knock, knock!
zounds ,  a dog ,  a rat ,  a mouse ,  a cat to scratch a man to death !
tis strange that they should so depart from home ,  and not send back my messenger .
why, you were with him, were you not?
scurvy knave !
content ,  in faith; i'll seal to such a bond ,  and say there is much kindness in the jew .
the body is with the king, but the king is not with the body.
ay ,  he spoke greek .
robin starveling ,  you must play thisbe’s mother . —tom snout ,  the tinker ?
the gray - eyed morn smiles on the frowning night ,  checkering the eastern clouds with streaks of light ,  and fleckled darkness like a drunkard reels from forth day’s path and titan’s fiery wheels .
and so do i too ,  lieutenant .
the earth hath bubbles ,  as the water has ,  and these are of them .
i tell you true .
in faith, i will.
for not alone the death of fulvia ,  with more urgent touches ,  do strongly speak to us ,  but the letters too of many our contriving friends in rome petition us at home .
if i do prove her haggard ,  though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings ,  i’d whistle her off and let her down the wind to prey at fortune .
where’s monsieur cobweb ?
and we will mend thy wages .
or to be naked with her friend in bed an hour or more ,  not meaning any harm ?
a fortnight and odd days .
come, madam, let's away, good morrow, cousin.
so full of artless jealousy is guilt it spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
i am maim'd forever.
will you dine with me tomorrow ?
you are i' the right ,  sir ,  ’tis for my mistress .
now does he feel his title hang loose about him, like a giant's robe upon a dwarfish thief.
adieu ,  good queen .
how chances it they travel ?
come ,  the recorders !
who ever would have thought it?
stay ,  you imperfect speakers ,  tell me more .
my necessaries are embarked .
some five or six and thirty of his knights ,  hot questrists after him ,  met him at gate ,  who with some other of the lord’s dependants are gone with him towards dover ,  where they boast to have well - armèd friends .
come, wrack!
follow my mother.
what committed!
or i’ll deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth .
marry ,  patience ,  or i shall say you are all in all in spleen ,  and nothing of a man .
tender yourself more dearly ,  or—not to crack the wind of the poor phrase ,  running it thus—you'll tender me a fool .
since birth and heaven and earth ,  all three do meet in thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose .
good corporal nym ,  show thy valor and put up your sword .
nay ,  but swear ’t .
no ,  my profound heart .
faith, i know not what to say.
and may you prove ,  sir ,  master of your art .
mine ,  and most of our fortunes tonight ,  shall be—drunk to bed .
i think this tale would win my daughter too .
well ,  what is it ?
where is my romeo ?
and so the lion vanished .
sleep dwell upon thine eyes ,  peace in thy breast !
noble antony ,  not sickness should detain me .
methought i was, and methought i had, but man is but a patched fool, if he will offer to say what methought i had.
thou didst prevent me .
you are a fool; go to.
what's your will ?
hath an argosy cast away, coming from tripolis.
good ,  good ,  the justice of it pleases !
hark, hark!
o heaven!
but ,  for mine own part ,  it was greek to me .
he's gone.
thou shalt get kings, though thou be none.
he is my dear friend ,  an please you .
what  “ quality ”  ?
bestir heigh, my hearts!
i have full cause of weeping ,  but this heart shall break into a hundred thousand flaws ,  or ere i’ll weep . —o fool ,  i shall go mad !
know him !
if the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife be stirring, tell her there's one cassio entreats her a little favor of speech.
as ’tis said ,  the bastard son of gloucester .
no news of them ?
good master peaseblossom ,  i shall desire you of more acquaintance too . — your name ,  i beseech you ,  sir ?
go with me to the duchess .
your loss is as yourself ,  great ,  and you bear it as answering to the weight .
o god !
fie ,  what a question’s that if thou wert near a lewd interpreter !
farewell, good strato.
come ,  brother; away !
good now ,  hold thy tongue .
if you do meet horatio and marcellus, the rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
the abuse of greatness is when it disjoins remorse from power, and, to speak truth of caesar, i have not known when his affections sway'd more than his reason.
this my mean task would be as heavy to me as odious, but the mistress which i serve quickens what's dead and makes my labours pleasures.
the kinder we ,  to give them thanks for nothing .
by jove that thunders !
the cause is in my will .
ay ,  marry ,  why was he sent into england ?
what means this lady ?
confirmed ,  confirmed !
come, hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
for though she’s as like this as a crab’s like an apple ,  yet i can tell what i can tell .
bid them prepare within .
i ,  madam ?
a good persuasion .
let the world see his nobleness well acted ,  which your death will never let come forth .
i robbed his wound of it .
thus ornament is but the guiled shore to a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf veiling an indian beauty; in a word, the seeming truth which cunning times put on to entrap the wisest.
see this dispatched with all the haste thou canst: anon i’ll give thee more instructions .
do you find your patience so predominant in your nature that you can let this go ?
dost thou lie so low?
you have obtain'd it .
bid him report the feature of octavia: her years ,  her inclination .
of so high and plenteous wit and invention !
to fright you thus methinks i am too savage; to do worse to you were fell cruelty ,  which is too nigh your person .
let your highness command upon me ,  to the which my duties are with a most indissoluble tie forever knit .
how fondly dost thou reason !
i will give thee mine .
dorset is fled to richmond .
oh ,  god defend me !
o ,  tell not me of fear !
shake it off .
stay the friar too .
thou shalt be whipped with wire and stewed in brine ,  smarting in ling’ring pickle !
you lie out on ’t ,  sir ,  and therefore it is not yours .
must i endure all this?
ay ,  nurse; what of that ?
am i myself ?
a victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers .
an old italian fox is not so kind ,  my boy .
have you any further trade with us ?
i wonder at this haste ,  that i must wed ere he ,  that should be husband ,  comes to woo .
an abominable monster !
would he have stolen away from sleeping hermia ?
you shall have none ill, sir; for i'll try if they can lick their fingers.
my daughter’s mother thinks it with her soul .
what need we fear who knows it, when none can call our power to account?
it was his bidding; therefore, good emilia, give me my nightly wearing, and adieu.
nay ,  by saint jamy ,  i hold you a penny ,  a horse and a man is more than one and yet not many .
for they shall yet belie thy happy years that say thou art a man .
i shall desire you of more acquaintance, good master cobweb.
now ,  by this hand ,  i swear ,  i scorn the term ,  nor shall my nell keep lodgers .
wherefore ?
hark ,  how these instruments summon to supper !
you nimble lightnings ,  dart your blinding flames into her scornful eyes !
but ,  were you wedded ,  you would bear some sway .
he hath ,  my lord ,  but be you well assured no more than he’ll unswear .
but, good my brother, do not, as some ungracious pastors do, show me the steep and thorny way to heaven, whilst, like a puff'd and reckless libertine, himself the primrose path of dalliance treads and recks not his own rede.
o sir ,  pardon me !
you mar all with this starting .
by heaven ,  i do not ,  i do not ,  gentlemen . —   o murderous coxcomb !
if not ,  shun me ,  and i will spare your haunts .
now let thy friendly hand put strength enough to ’t .
why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep?
thus, sir: although this lord of weak remembrance, this, who shall be of as little memory when he is earth'd, hath here almost persuaded— for he's a spirit of persuasion, only professes to persuade—the king his son's alive, ’tis as impossible that he's undrowned as he that sleeps here swims.
i do ,  truly ,  for thou swear’st to me thou art honest .
and he did bid us follow to the temple.
now i perceive they have conjoin'd all three to fashion this false sport, in spite of me.
wipe thine eyes .
give thy thoughts no tongue ,  nor any unproportion'd thought his act .
another general shout !
to thee ,  that hast nor honesty nor grace .
we three are married ,  but you two are sped .
dost fall ?
sweetest nut hath sourest rind; such a nut is rosalind .
but she is none .
why ,  give it to my wife ,  and fetch your money .
what did thy song bode, lady?
therefore your grace may well say i have lost it .
i will not do them wrong .
we'll put on those shall praise your excellence and set a double varnish on the fame the frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together and wager on your heads.
yea ,  an ’twere a thousand pound more than ’tis ,  for i hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city ,  and though i be but a poor man ,  i am glad to hear it .
and never ,  since the middle summer’s spring ,  met we on hill ,  in dale ,  forest ,  or mead ,  by pavèd fountain ,  or by rushy brook ,  or in the beachèd margent of the sea ,  to dance our ringlets to the whistling wind ,  but with thy brawls thou hast disturbed our sport .
why ,  there was a crown offered him ,  and being offered him: he put it by with the back of his hand ,  thus ,  and then the people fell a - shouting .
the noise they make will cause demetrius to awake .
here comes oberon .
if she find him not ,  to england send him; or confine him where your wisdom best shall think .
my uncle !
what is ’t ,  ophelia ,  he hath said to you ?
this do i drink to thee .
well ,  to our work alive .
very well ,  my lord .
demetrius ,  i'll avouch it to his head ,  made love to nedar's daughter ,  helena ,  and won her soul; and she ,  sweet lady ,  dotes ,  devoutly dotes ,  dotes in idolatry ,  upon this spotted and inconstant man .
stand ,  ho !
come on .
then i beat my tabor ,  at which ,  like unbacked colts ,  they pricked their ears ,  advanced their eyelids ,  lifted up their noses as they smelt music .
the second cock hath crow'd ,  the curfew bell hath rung ,  'tis three o'clock .
tis far off ,  and rather like a dream than an assurance that my remembrance warrants .
was he not born of woman ?
was't hamlet wrong'd laertes ?
do you doubt that?
seest not ?
as the indifferent children of the earth .
what other bond than secret romans that have spoke the word and will not palter ?
kill me tomorrow; let me live tonight !
something is rotten in the state of denmark .
what sadness lengthens romeo's hours ?
do all men kill the things they do not love ?
i come to fetch you to the senate-house.
if it be so ,  how little is the cost i have bestow'd ,  in purchasing the semblance of my soul from out the state of hellish cruelty !
o, what more favour can i do to thee than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain to sunder his that was thine enemy?
and now i do bethink me ,  it was she first told me thou wast mad ,  then camest in smiling ,  and in such forms which here were presupposed upon thee in the letter .
what ,  will you not suffer me ?
why may not imagination trace the noble dust of alexander till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
what ,  no more ceremony ?
also king lewis the tenth ,  who was sole heir to the usurper capet ,  could not keep quiet in his conscience ,  wearing the crown of france ,  till satisfied that fair queen isabel ,  his grandmother ,  was lineal of the lady ermengare ,  daughter to charles the foresaid duke of lorraine ,  by the which marriage the line of charles the great was reunited to the crown of france .
the games are done, and caesar is returning.
cheerly ,  boys .
is love a tender thing?
fore heaven ,  an excellent song .
ho!
happy be theseus, our renowned duke!
my wife !
hold off the earth awhile till i have caught her once more in mine arms .
speak yet .
fortune and antony part here .
o' thursday be it ,  then . — go you to juliet ere you go to bed .
nay ,  it is .
ay ,  my lord ,  this same .
i'll be with thee betimes.
dismay'd not this our captains ,  macbeth and banquo ?
what passion hangs these weights upon my tongue ?
nay ,  do not pause; for i did kill king henry— but ’twas thy beauty that provokèd me .
an unauthorized kiss .
am i in earth ,  in heaven ,  or in hell ?
and for that offence immediately we do exile him hence.
but come ,  i'll tell thee all my whole device when i am in my coach ,  which stays for us at the park gate; and therefore haste away ,  for we must measure twenty miles to - day .
poor bird!
look ,  sir ,  here comes the lady toward my cell .
you beastly knave ,  know you no reverence ?
come not in here ,  nuncle .
madam, i go with all convenient speed.
worse and worse.
my old brain is troubled .
my master calls me .
good morrow ,  general .
come ,  sir .
stay but a little .
that last is true—the sweeter rest was mine.
i saw the handkerchief .
what, must our mouths be cold?
o ,  ho !
then ,  if they die unprovided ,  no more is the king guilty of their damnation than he was before guilty of those impieties for the which they are now visited .
tell us where 'tis ,  that we may take it thence and bear it to the chapel .
but fare you well, i have some business.
yea ,  richard ,  when i know ,  for i protest as yet i do not .
nay ,  ’tis most certain ,  iras .
i will do't !
amen !
here; what would my lord ?
the son and heir of old tiberio .
he attendeth here hard by to know your answer whether you’ll admit him .
you are welcome ,  masters; welcome ,  all .
tis a strange truth.
right .
i will hear cassius and compare their reasons when severally we hear them renderèd .
there's comfort yet; they are assailable .
i did hear the galloping of horse .
all - seeing heaven ,  what a world is this !
if thou beest trinculo ,  come forth .
now all the youth of england are on fire ,  and silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies .
and i have reason for it .
are his wits safe?
my father—methinks i see my father.
o ,  let me think on hastings and be gone to brecknock ,  while my fearful head is on !
i dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here alone ,  howsoever you speak this to feel other men’s minds .
well, well, well— pray god it be, sir.
o cassio ,  whence came this ?
my father ,  poorly led ?
i will not hold thee long .
his word might bear my wealth at any time .
her vestal livery is but sick and green ,  and none but fools do wear it .
warm o'my troth !
let’s withdraw ,  my lord .
why should he not ?
it was as i have seen it in his life ,  a sable silvered .
fury ,  fury ! —there ,  tyrant ,  there .
what mean these masterless and gory swords to lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
are you honest?
when you shall please to play the thieves for wives ,  i’ll watch as long for you then .
alas ,  poor romeo ,  he is already dead !
may i never to this good purpose ,  that so fairly shows ,  dream of impediment !
romeo ,  away ,  be gone !
i will ,  my hermia .
no boasting like a fool; this deed i'll do before this purpose cool .
do ,  good my friend .
i shall .
bid them come near .
and therefore ’tis called a sensible tale .
but it is no matter .
things for the cook ,  sir; but i know not what .
nay ,  go not back .
if ill ,  why hath it given me earnest of success ,  commencing in a truth ?
i did send ,  after the last enchantment you did here ,  a ring in chase of you .
now ,  what's the business ?
say to me whose fortunes shall rise higher ,  caesar’s or mine ?
turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but, at the next turning of all, on your left; marry, at the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the jew's house.
therefore forbear awhile .
the beds i’ th’ east are soft ,  and thanks to you ,  that called me timelier than my purpose hither ,  for i have gained by ’t .
as i told thee before ,  i am subject to a tyrant ,  a sorcerer ,  that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island .
now ,  sir ,  what make you here ?
the noble brutus is ascended .
we’ll lead you thither .
you may convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty and yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
i pray thee, let us go and find him out, and quicken his embraced heaviness, with some delight or other.
why ,  then ,  take no note of him ,  but let him go and presently call the rest of the watch together and thank god you are rid of a knave .
i am aweary of this moon .
my soul, and not my child!
never came poison from so sweet a place .
follow me then.
is supper ready ,  the house trimmed ,  rushes strewed ,  cobwebs swept ,  the servingmen in their new fustian ,  their white stockings ,  and every officer his wedding garment on ?
i will bring you thither .
do as thou wilt, for i have done with thee.
there is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his valor, and death for his ambition.
buy food and get thyself in flesh .
no, this my hand will rather the multitudinous seas incarnadine, making the green one red.
this play is the image of a murder done in vienna .
go put on thy defenses .
let us do so ,  for we are at the stake ,  and bay'd about with many enemies; and some that smile have in their hearts ,  i fear ,  millions of mischiefs .
and when she went away now ,   “ let this fellow be looked to .  ”   “ fellow !  ”  not  “ malvolio ,  ”  nor after my degree ,  but  “ fellow .  ”  why ,  everything adheres together ,  that no dram of a scruple ,  no scruple of a scruple ,  no obstacle ,  no incredulous or unsafe circumstance—what can be said ?
there, my lord.
which soon he granted ,  being an obstruct ’tween his lust and him .
oh ,  but she is wise .
ay ,  my lord .
how shall we beguile the lazy time if not with some delight ?
i love her ten times more than e'er i did .
ay ,  what of that ?
my ever - gentle cousin ,  welcome hither .
o dardanius !
when did you lose your daughter ?
i do but stay till your marriage be consummate ,  and then go i toward aragon .
o cursed spite ,  that ever i was born to set it right !
white his shroud as the mountain snow— alas ,  look here ,  my lord !
good madam, what's the matter with my lord?
he hath slept long .
you have of late stood out against your brother ,  and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace ,  where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself .
and speak parrot ?
forbear ,  and eat no more .
go with me ,  silvius .
was the hope drunk wherein you dress'd yourself ?
sir ,  he may live .
go to!
it is a massy wheel, fix'd on the summit of the highest mount, to whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls, each small annexment, petty consequence, attends the boisterous ruin.
it doth so, holy sir; and there's my master, one that you love.
he's married.
therefore our everlasting farewell take.
to't.
in my chamber window lies a book .
your way is shorter .
when the butt is out ,  we will drink water .
hail to your grace .
a sailor’s wife had chestnuts in her lap ,  and munched ,  and munched ,  and munched .
if there be any good thing to be done that may to thee do ease and grace to me ,  speak to me .
being unprepared, our will became the servant to defect, which else should free have wrought.
who shall stay you ?
oh weary reckoning !
here at the door; i pray you, call them in.
do you see this ,  o god ?
fellows ,  let’s be gone .
in him your comfort lives .
by my holy order ,  i thought thy disposition better temper'd .
the taming school ?
if we know him to be a thief ,  shall we not lay hands on him ?
what news ,  my lord ?
master fer .
how is't with me ,  when every noise appals me ?
cry but ‘ay me ! ’ pronounce but ‘love’ and ‘dove’; speak to my gossip venus one fair word ,  one nickname for her purblind son and heir ,  young adam cupid ,  he that shot so trim when king cophetua lov'd the beggar maid !
what would you ?
why ,  for that too .
do you know where we may apprehend her and the moor?
this is no place ,  this house is but a butchery .
not a drop before .
an i may hide my face, let me play thisbe too.
i have done .
how chance the roses there do fade so fast ?
if i cut my finger ,  i shall make bold with you . — your name ,  honest gentleman ?
i prithee, remember i have done thee worthy service, told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served without or grudge or grumblings.
o friar ,  the damnèd use that word in hell .
what was th' impediment that broke this off ?
ratcliffe ,  come hither .
othello ,  leave some officer behind ,  and he shall our commission bring to you; with such things else of quality and respect as doth import you .
now do i see 'tis true.
who is it in the press that calls on me ?
caesar ,  i will .
let the devil and his dam haunt you!
no ,  truly ,  but in friendly recompense .
good sooth ,  even thus .
marry ,  my child ,  early next thursday morn the gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman ,  the county paris ,  at saint peter's church ,  shall happily make thee there a joyful bride .
sure ,  he that made us with such large discourse ,  looking before and after ,  gave us not that capability and godlike reason to fust in us unused .
nor i, my lord, in faith.
you know the character to be your brother’s ?
what will you give me now for that same handkerchief ?
give me some light .
i wish we may ,  but yet have i a mind that fears him much ,  and my misgiving still falls shrewdly to the purpose .
i have said .
there shall i try ,  in my oration ,  how the people take the cruel issue of these bloody men ,  according to the which thou shalt discourse to young octavius of the state of things .
he shall enlarge him .
may she give that ?
a soothsayer bids you beware the ides of march .
and for the sake of them thou sorrowest for ,  do me the favour to dilate at full what hath befall'n of them and thee till now .
madam ,  i will .
i would he had boarded me .
faith ,  i intend so .
am i that name ,  iago ?
antonio .
with as little a web as this will i ensnare as great a fly as cassio.
goes fleance with you ?
no cock of mine .
here it is ,  i think .
why ,  is not this better now than groaning for love ?
well .
since his majesty went into the field ,  i have seen her rise from her bed ,  throw her nightgown upon her ,  unlock her closet ,  take forth paper ,  fold it ,  write upon ’t ,  read it ,  afterwards seal it ,  and again return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep .
the glow-worm shows the matin to be near and 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
my lord ,  i take my leave .
bring me to him .
not i ,  i must be found .
nay ,  i’ll ne'er believe a madman till i see his brains .
hie to your chamber .
my young remembrance cannot parallel a fellow to it .
do they grow rusty?
then ,  gentle brother ,  get you in again .
tis not so sweet now as it was before .
music!
this is no mortal business, nor no sound that the earth owes.—i hear it now above me.
twere best he speak no harm of brutus here .
remember; and call thy husband hither.
here's one comes in his shirt ,  with light and weapons .
ride ,  ride ,  messala .
hail to thee ,  lady !
who would be jealous ,  then ,  of such a one ?
hark ,  hark !
my worthy lord ,  your noble friends do lack you .
i know him well.
and seemed i ever otherwise to you ?
i will answer you with gait and entrance .
see what a rent the envious casca made .
did my heart love till now?
i remember the first time ever caesar put it on; 'twas on a summer's evening, in his tent, that day he overcame the nervii.
never alone did the king sigh ,  but with a general groan .
these are news indeed !
it is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb .
speak thou now .
such mortal drugs i have; but mantua's law is death to any he that utters them.
then let the trumpets sound the tucket sonance and the note to mount ,  for our approach shall so much dare the field that england shall couch down in fear and yield .
hark !
when i think ,  i must speak .
canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes a while ,  and touch thy instrument a strain or two ?
wife ,  children ,  servants ,  all that could be found .
she hath spied him already with those sweet eyes .
how then ,  sick ?
marry ,  on hero ,  the daughter and heir of leonato .
twill be a storm .
you all do know this mantle .
call you?
that song tonight will not go from my mind .
till then ,  lead thou first .
you look wearily .
i dare do all that may become a man; who dares do more is none .
prithee ,  peace !
to who ?
it is a common thing— ha !
can virtue hide itself ?
but that you do not love me .
head to foot now is he total gules ,  horridly trick'd with blood of fathers ,  mothers ,  daughters ,  sons .
come by and by to my chamber .
fear not, my lord; your servant shall do so.
what's the newest grief ?
a proper saying !
o iras ,  charmian !
do not ,  my lord .
the duke be here tonight ?
for my dinner .
ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
what news, my love?
here is a ring she bid me give you, sir.
i say it is the moon .
romeo .
thanks ,  courteous wall .
to gonzalo] nay, good my lord, be not angry.
sweet masters ,  be patient .
so awake when i am gone; for i must now to oberon .
your reason ?
dost thou lie so low ?
come ,  we burn daylight ,  ho !
what, is he dead?
accost ,  sir andrew ,  accost .
lights ,  lights ,  lights !
and now, who knows but you, lorenzo, whether i am yours?
many will swoon when they do look on blood .
soundly ,  my lord .
he brings you figs .
to sebastian] his word is more than the miraculous [to sebastian] his word is more than the miraculous harp .
what an eye she has !
i warrant your honour.
o young and noble cato ,  art thou down ?
i tell thee ,  kate ,  ’twas burnt and dried away .
yet do i fear thy nature; it is too full o’ the milk of human kindness to catch the nearest way .
not in deed ,  madam ,  for i can do nothing but what indeed is honest to be done .
i must take out the work ?
nay ,  very pale .
whip him .
o ,  shut the door !
down on your knees and thank heaven ,  fasting ,  for a good man’s love ,  for i must tell you friendly in your ear ,  sell when you can; you are not for all markets .
why, love, i say!
tomorrow ,  sir ,  i wrestle for my credit ,  and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him well .
i do not know .
ay ,  marry ,  am i ,  sir; and now ’tis plotted !
go ,  go ,  up to the leads .
lysander ,  look how i do quake with fear .
tis not for gravity to play at cherry - pit with satan .
i'll teach you how to flow .
that's my noble master!
and what said he ?
i have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense, and he grows angry.
seek him, bid him come hither.
i have made bold ,  iago ,  to send in to your wife .
what if i had said i had seen him do you wrong ?
if thou hast slain lysander in his sleep ,  being o'er shoes in blood ,  plunge in the deep ,  and kill me too .
give me, give me!
the foe vaunts in the field .
heavens make our presence and our practices pleasant and helpful to him !
i am sorry that i am deceived in him.
they call for dates and quinces in the pastry .
titinius, if thou lovest me, mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him, till he have brought thee up to yonder troops and here again, that i may rest assured whether yond troops are friend or enemy.
save you, friend cassio!
but for your husband ,  he is noble ,  wise ,  judicious ,  and best knows the fits o’ the season .
what’s that ,  my lord ?
hath she forgot already that brave prince ,  edward ,  her lord ,  whom i some three months since stabbed in my angry mood at tewkesbury ?
this fellow is wise enough to play the fool ,  and to do that well craves a kind of wit .
i durst, my lord, to wager she is honest, lay down my soul at stake.
jove ,  i thank thee !
o ,  there has been much throwing about of brains .
he’s dead and rotten .
cobweb .
sojourn in mantua .
do you see this ,  o god ?
marry ,  your manhood ,  mew !
you take your pennyworths now .
know ,  sir ,  that i am called hortensio .
how much more elder art thou than thy looks!
my reputation ,  iago ,  my reputation !
it is even so.
doth he not deserve well ?
regan ,  i think you are .
juliet!
take him up gently ,  and to bed with him ,  and each one to his office when he wakes .
you are look'd for and call'd for ,  ask'd for and sought for ,  in the great chamber .
this murderous shaft that's shot hath not yet lighted, and our safest way is to avoid the aim.
sola ,  sola !
the king comes here tonight .
oh ,  he’s returned ,  and as pleasant as ever he was .
the venom of such looks ,  we fairly hope ,  have lost their quality ,  and that this day shall change all griefs and quarrels into love .
never, my lord.
i hear a tongue, shriller than all the music, cry “caesar.” speak, caesar is turn'd to hear.
not so hot .
who ,  i ,  my lord ?
go with me to the vault.
a noble prisoner !
in terms of choice i am not solely led by nice direction of a maiden's eyes: besides, the lottery of my destiny bars me the right of voluntary choosing: but, if my father had not scanted me, and hedg'd me by his wit, to yield myself his wife, who wins me by that means i told you, yourself, renowned prince, then stood as fair as any comer i have look'd on yet, for my affection.
behind the arras i’ll convey myself to hear the process .
who riseth from a feast with that keen appetite that he sits down ?
hail !
what should i say to you ?
no ,  wench !
kindness in women ,  not their beauteous looks ,  shall win my love ,  and so i take my leave ,  in resolution as i swore before .
quick ,  quick ,  i pray thee ,  draw the curtain straight; the prince of arragon hath ta'en his oath ,  and comes to his election presently .
the devil take order now !
and i ,  for winking at you ,  discords too ,  have lost a brace of kinsmen .
but fare you well ,  i have some business .
there was more foolery yet ,  if could remember it .
but hush ,  no more .
i desire your more acquaintance ,  good master mustardseed .
who brought it ?
gentle mercutio ,  put thy rapier up .
yours, by this hand.
methinks i do.
o woeful sympathy ,  piteous predicament !
but tell me yet ,  dost thou not know my voice ?
where are my switzers ?
if our sport had gone forward ,  we had all been made men .
othello, the fortitude of the place is best known to you; and though we have there a substitute of most allowed sufficiency, yet opinion, a sovereign mistress of effects, throws a more safer voice on you.
and to see how he prizes the fool- ish woman your wife!
the moon ?
let our reciprocal vows be remembered .
nay 'tis twice two months ,  my lord .
were they not forced with those that should be ours ,  we might have met them dareful ,  beard to beard ,  and beat them backward home .
ay, sir, for three months.
why then ,  he is alive .
o, my lord, my lord, i have been so affrighted!
wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit i made to thee ?
madam ,  i wish it may .
i hold the world but as the world, gratiano; a stage, where every man must play a part, and mine a sad one.
anon !
doth not the day break here?
the villany you teach me i will execute; and it shall go hard but i will better the instruction .
but it is true,—without any slips of prolixity, or crossing the plain highway of talk,—that the good antonio, the honest antonio,—o that i had a title good enough to keep his name company!— come, the full stop.
if thou consider rightly of the matter, caesar has had great wrong.
therefore ,  fair hermia ,  question your desires ,  know of your youth ,  examine well your blood ,  whether ,  if you yield not to your father's choice ,  you can endure the livery of a nun ,  for aye to be in shady cloister mew'd ,  to live a barren sister all your life ,  chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon .
none ,  brutus ,  none .
i am launcelot ,  your boy that was ,  your son that is ,  your child that shall be .
behold !
go home, be merry, give consent to marry paris.
i would have my bond .
am i the motive of these tears ,  my lord ?
why ,  man ,  he doth bestride the narrow world like a colossus ,  and we petty men walk under his huge legs and peep about to find ourselves dishonorable graves .
o grim - look'd night !
alas, thou hast misconstrued every thing!
why ,  so didst thou .
in heaven.
let us hear ,  sweet bottom .
or else misgraffed in respect of years— o spite !
the moon is down .
i will but spend a word here in the house and go with you.
you would say so ,  master ,  if your garments were thin .
nay ,  if you stare ,  we shall hear more anon .
there’s enough .
if sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and supersubtle venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell ,  thou shalt enjoy her .
let me not hinder ,  cassius ,  your desires; i'll leave you .
exit romeo .
beggar that i am ,  i am even poor in thanks; but i thank you ,  and sure ,  dear friends ,  my thanks are too dear a halfpenny .
thou art a boil ,  a plague - sore or embossèd carbuncle in my corrupted blood .
i will this night ,  in several hands ,  in at his windows throw ,  as if they came from several citizens ,  writings ,  all tending to the great opinion that rome holds of his name ,  wherein obscurely caesar's ambition shall be glanced at .
sblood ,  do you think i am easier to be played on than a pipe ?
this is some monster of the isle with four legs who hath got ,  as i take it ,  an ague .
fairly spoke .
but for the stuffing—well ,  we are all mortal .
for brutus' sake ,  i am beholding to you .
we’ll draw cuts for the signior .
what is your will ?
is this the monument of leonato ?
my lady would not lose him for more than i’ll say .
now to my word: it is ‘adieu, adieu!
slaying is the word: it is a deed in fashion .
ah ,  let be ,  let be !
sword ”  is an oath ,  and oaths must have their course .
speak'st thou this from thy heart ?
but if thy love were ever like to mine— as sure i think did never man love so— how many actions most ridiculous hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy ?
have you no modesty ,  no maiden shame ,  no touch of bashfulness ?
why is time such a niggard of hair ,  being ,  as it is ,  so plentiful an excrement ?
o sir ,  to wilful men ,  the injuries that they themselves procure must be their schoolmasters .
then ,  world ,  thou hast a pair of chaps ,  no more ,  and throw between them all the food thou hast ,  they’ll grind the one the other .
i humbly thank you for't .
but do not look for further recompense than thine own gladness that thou art employed .
i’ll stay no longer question .
i should be still plucking the grass ,  to know where sits the wind; peering in maps ,  for ports ,  and piers ,  and roads: and every object that might make me fear misfortune to my ventures ,  out of doubt would make me sad .
we will go walk a little in the orchard ,  and then to dinner .
i ,  sir ,  am dromio .
tis worse than murder to do upon respect such violent outrage .
pray you sit still .
for the which ,  as i told you ,  antonio shall be bound .
nay ,  faith ,  let not me play a woman; i have a beard coming .
he hath much land, and fertile.
i am but mad north - north - west .
let them guard the door .
bid them prepare within.
hast thou met with him ?
beauty's ensign yet is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks, and death's pale flag is not advanced there.
hold ,  there’s expenses for thee .
o notable strumpet!
why ,  my boy ?
whither am i going?
whence are you ,  sir ?
what noise ?
where ?
thou hast done a deed— i care not for thy sword ,  i’ll make thee known
stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.
ever note, lucilius, when love begins to sicken and decay it useth an enforced ceremony.
nor i; my spirits are nimble .
this is lucentio’s house .
and know it now, the senate have concluded to give this day a crown to mighty caesar.
i pray you mar no more trees with writing love songs in their barks .
i must eat my dinner.
roast me in sulphur !
i do repent me that i put it to you .
in debating which was best ,  we shall part with neither .
he says they can do nothing in this kind .
wo ,  ha ,  ho !
but he, that hath the steerage of my course, direct my sail!
titinius' face is upward .
the question of cordelia and her father requires a fitter place .
what is the prince's doom ?
your daughter spent in genoa ,  as i heard ,  one night ,  fourscore ducats !
here ,  sir !
the sun for sorrow will not show his head .
this is old ninny’s tomb .
i do believe 'twas he .
this man is pyramus ,  if you would know; this beauteous lady thisbe is certain .
i will have nothing else but only this; and now ,  methinks ,  i have a mind to it .
for oberon is passing fell and wrath because that she ,  as her attendant hath a lovely boy stolen from an indian king .
go ,  tubal ,  and meet me at our synagogue; go ,  good tubal; at our synagogue ,  tubal .
i prithee, be my god.
henceforward i am ever rul'd by you.
she give it cassio?
what mercy can you render him, antonio?
he received them of him that brought them .
we will .
all that i have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; i ,  the man i' the moon; this thorn - bush ,  my thorn - bush; and this dog ,  my dog .
when shall we three meet again ?
this play is the image of a murder done in vienna.
go pronounce his present death, and with his former title greet macbeth.
dear lady, welcome home.
what ,  is antonio here ?
he holds me well; the better shall my purpose work on him.
and slay thy lady that in thy life lives ,  by doing damned hate upon thyself ?
we here attend you .
song] you spotted snakes with double tongue, thorny hedgehogs, be not seen; newts and blind-worms, do no wrong, come not near our fairy queen.
i did not think you could have been so angry.
you may do so:—but let it be so hasted ,  that supper be ready at the farthest by five of the clock .
nay ,  weep not ,  gentle eros .
would none but i might venge my cousin’s death !
i was adored once too .
if you mark alexander’s life well ,  harry of monmouth’s life is come after it indifferent well ,  for there is figures in all things .
what i can do i will; and more i will than for myself i dare .
no more moving?
if this were true ,  then should i know this secret .
the pound of flesh which i demand of him is dearly bought .
o, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
hie to your chamber.
so farewell .
let us go .
o, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps; and now falls on her bed, and then starts up, and tybalt calls; and then on romeo cries, and then down falls again.
where do i dwell ?
let him alone awhile .
talk not to me, for i'll not speak a word.
no ,  uncle ,  but our crosses on the way have made it tedious ,  wearisome ,  and heavy .
hail!
i tax not you ,  you elements ,  with unkindness .
i have told thee often ,  and i retell thee again and again ,  i hate the moor .
you shortly shall hear more.
madam !
no further ,  sir .
thou chid’st me oft for loving rosaline .
go ,  fetch me something: i’ll break ope the gate .
they are then excused ,  my lord ,  when they see not what they do .
why ,  there’s more gold .
we think not so ,  my lord .
nor do we find him forward to be sounded, but with a crafty madness keeps aloof when we would bring him on to some confession of his true state.
let’s see these pockets .
come ,  hang them on this line .
do you hear ,  masters ?
and when goes hence ?
you come most carefully upon your hour .
i will desire you to live in the meantime and eat your victuals .
is't not possible to understand in another tongue ?
here were the servants of your adversary ,  and yours ,  close fighting ere i did approach .
i heard it not.
god’s will and his pleasure ,  captain ,  i beseech you now ,  come apace to the king .
i did so ,  and take heed on ’t ,  make it a darling like your precious eye .
open ’t ,  and read it .
of this discourse we more will hear anon . — egeus ,  i will overbear your will .
your friends at pomfret ,  they do need the priest; your honor hath no shriving work in hand .
i am bound to hear .
is that my prize ?
what's this?
i jest to oberon ,  and make him smile ,  when i a fat and bean - fed horse beguile ,  neighing in likeness of a filly foal; and sometime lurk i in a gossip's bowl in very likeness of a roasted crab ,  and ,  when she drinks ,  against her lips i bob ,  and on her withered dewlap pour the ale .
though i struck him first ,  yet it’s no matter for that .
then weep no more .
no doubt ,  no doubt .
now, as you are a roman, tell me true.
which now we find each putter - out of five for one will bring us good warrant of .
by his cockle hat and staff and his sandal shoon.
welcome hither .
ne'er a fantastical knave of them all shall flout me out of my calling .
why ,  so: being gone ,  i am a man again .
i know our country disposition well; in venice they do let heaven see the pranks they dare not show their husbands; their best conscience is not to leave't undone ,  but keep't unknown .
here are enemies .
it shall do well.
i mean ,  my head upon your lap ?
look, love, what envious streaks do lace the severing clouds in yonder east.
he would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse .
o ,  let me make the period to my curse !
i speak not yet of proof .
i do beseech you— chiefly that i might set it in my prayers— what is your name ?
show ’s the way ,  sir .
have i not heard great ordnance in the field ,  and heaven’s artillery thunder in the skies ?
and ere i take this charm from of her sight— as i can take it with another herb— i’ll make her render up her page to me .
have you forgot me?
very good orators ,  when they are out ,  they will spit; and for lovers lacking—god warn us—matter ,  the cleanliest shift is to kiss .
caesar speaks .
for she his hairy temples then had rounded with coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers; and that same dew which sometime on the buds was wont to swell, like round and orient pearls stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes, like tears, that did their own disgrace bewail.
therefore do nimble - pinion'd doves draw love ,  and therefore hath the wind - swift cupid wings .
borrow cupid's wings and soar with them above a common bound .
well, gaoler, on:—pray god, bassanio come to see me pay his debt, and then i care not!
what did thy song bode ,  lady ?
well be with you ,  gentlemen !
o weary reckoning!
they are, my lord.
madam ,  it is ,  so you stand pleas'd withal .
heaven rest them now !
my lord ,  i shall reply amazèdly ,  half sleep ,  half waking .
the robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief; he robs himself that spends a bootless grief .
i will be satisfied!
a tomb must cover thy sweet eyes .
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead; and paris too .
oh ,  what a rogue and peasant slave am i !
i must away this night toward padua ,  and it is meet i presently set forth .
say then my peace is made .
come now; what masques ,  what dances shall we have ,  to wear away this long age of three hours between our after - supper and bed - time ?
prodigious birth of love it is to me that i must love a loathed enemy.
let it not ,  brutus .
how didst thou know 'twas she?
my sword ,  i say !
zounds ,  that's fulsome !
i shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you can the getting up of the negro’s belly .
no ,  by this hand .
you must awhile be patient.
be kind and courteous to this gentleman; hop in his walks, and gambol in his eyes; feed him with apricocks and dewberries, with purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries; the honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, and for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs, and light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes, to have my love to bed and to arise; and pluck the wings from painted butterflies, to fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.
but stay ,  o spite !
hard-handed men that work in athens here, which never labour'd in their minds till now; and now have toil'd their unbreathed memories with this same play against your nuptial.
i pray thee ,  mark me .
sit .
how shall i know thee again ?
what's done cannot be undone .
sweet lord ,  you play me false .
mechanic slaves with greasy aprons ,  rules ,  and hammers shall uplift us to the view .
ay, forsooth.
pray you be ever known to patience .
her father’s brother would be her lord ?
out— of love?
i could not find him at the elephant .
i have broke with her father and his goodwill obtained .
o good old man ,  how well in thee appears the constant service of the antique world ,  when service sweat for duty ,  not for meed .
how comes it now ,  my husband ,  o ,  how comes it that thou art thus estranged from thyself ?
i must be circumstanced .
what!
it faded on the crowing of the cock .
i know this is a joyful trouble to you; but yet ’tis one .
for pyramus therein doth kill himself .
tell me that .
i am thy father's spirit, doom'd for a certain term to walk the night, and for the day confined to fast in fires, till the foul crimes done in my days of nature are burnt and purged away.
o my father ,  i have broke your hest to say so !
there’s mine .
not yet quite dead?
beyond imagination is the wrong that she this day hath shameless thrown on me .
francis flute, the bellows-mender.
come, i'll dispose of thee among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
it sounds no more ,  and sure ,  it waits upon some god o' th' island .
these are gracious drops .
go off .
i'll rather kill myself .
my dearest coz, i pray you, school yourself.
speak yet again .
apollo plays ,  and twenty cagèd nightingales do sing: or wilt thou sleep ?
a marvelous witty fellow ,  i assure you ,  but i will go about with him . —come you hither ,  sirrah ,  a word in your ear .
repent that e’er thy tongue hath so betrayed thine act .
call me but love, and i'll be new baptiz'd; henceforth i never will be romeo.
pink for flower.
the citizens are up, and tybalt slain.
did you send to him, sir?
are there no stones in heaven but what serve for the thunder ? —precious villain !
oh ,  then belike you fancy riches more .
why did you bring these daggers from the place ?
our duties ,  and the pledge .
leave you your power to draw ,  and i shall have no power to follow you .
my mistress with a monster is in love.
now ,  if you are a maid ,  answer to this .
i wish mine eyes would with themselves shut up my thoughts .
a cry within] a plague [a cry within] a plague upon this howling!
come on .
call burgundy . —    cornwall and albany ,  with my two daughters' dowers digest this third .
i once more take my leave .
and then give them great meals of beef and iron and steel ,  they will eat like wolves and fight like devils .
cassio did top her; ask thy husband else.
no thisbe do i see .
he that is yours ,  sweet lady .
see'st thou this sweet sight ?
why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly?
but now i'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
friends both, go join you with some further aid.
alas ,  and woe !
since no man has aught of what he leaves ,  what is't to leave betimes ?
where's the thane of cawdor?
they’ll tell all .
the worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul .
i must employ you in some business against our nuptial and confer with you of something nearly that concerns yourselves .
you shall have letters from me to some friends that will sweep your way for you .
o ,  give me thy hand ,  one writ with me in sour misfortune's book !
i will construe to them whence you come .
o, never shall sun that morrow see!
highest queen of state ,  great juno ,  comes .
let’s hear him ,  for the things he speaks may concern caesar .
and be assured you’ll find a difference ,  as we his subjects have in wonder found ,  between the promise of his greener days and these he masters now .
therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends, and there an end.
the things that threatened me ne'er looked but on my back .
i shall do’t ,  my lord .
friend launcelot ,  what’s the news ?
o ,  name him not .
what?
that's the end.
o corin ,  that thou knew’st how i do love her !
is there division 'twixt my lord and cassio?
amen ,  say we .
sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief; i am most unhappy in the loss of it .
doth not my wit become me rarely ?
cure her of that .
sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n, which, as i think, you know not.
ay ,  two hours together .
as i did stand my watch upon the hill ,  i looked toward birnam ,  and anon methought the wood began to move .
mark him.
how do you ,  pretty lady ?
i will carry no crotchets.
come, deal justly with me.
i urged you further; then you scratch'd your head, and too impatiently stamp'd with your foot.
wherefore?
bethink you.
what said he ?
where ?
her body sleeps in capels' monument ,  and her immortal part with angels lives .
thou hast some suit to caesar ,  hast thou not ?
sir ,  you say well ,  and well you do conceive .
and my heart too.
here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains.
plucking the entrails of an offering forth ,  they could not find a heart within the beast .
but let that go .
o mistress ,  villainy hath made mocks with love !
have with you .
can i go forward when my heart is here ?
if i do it, let the audience look to their eyes; i will move storms; i will condole in some measure.
what treasure ,  uncle ?
methinks it is like a weasel .
mend me ,  thou saucy -  fellow !
it shall be done.
i did not ,  gentle husband ,  lock thee forth .
o spartan dog ,  more fell than anguish ,  hunger ,  or the sea !
in the meantime ,  let me be thought too busy in my fears— as worthy cause i have to fear i am— and hold her free ,  i do beseech your honor .
she cannot be so much without true judgment ,  having so swift and excellent a wit as she is prized to have ,  as to refuse so rare a gentleman as signior benedick .
i have professed me thy friend ,  and i confess me knit to thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness .
fair lovers ,  you are fortunately met; of this discourse we more will hear anon .
how comes it ?
adieu ! —tears exhibit my tongue .
roderigo!
to anger him ,  we’ll have the bear again ,  and we will fool him black and blue .
once more remove ,  good friends .
i would have none but knaves follow it since a fool gives it .
you best know the place .
draw together .
how now, balthasar?
ay, on mine honour.
this shall forbid it .
that we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time and drawing days out that men stand upon.
i am invisible; and i will overhear their conference.
o clitus!
get you to bed on th' instant ,  i will be returned forthwith .
wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if i depend on the issue?
all the charms of sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
if without peril it be possible ,  sweet blunt ,  make some good means to speak with him ,  and give him from me this most needful note .
catesby ,  o'erlook the walls .
no ,  great king .
so haply are they friends to antony .
i see a woman may be made a fool if she had not a spirit to resist .
what should it be ,  that they so shriek abroad ?
prithee, peace.
it sounds no more; and sure it waits upon some god o'th’ island.
stand ,  you neat slave ,  strike !
i do not think it good .
with who ?
are you a man ?
what ,  a prisoner ?
be rul'd by me: forget to think of her.
my lord?
i doubt not of his temperance .
it is very sultry—as ’twere—i cannot tell how .
i hope they will not come upon us now .
yonder ,  sir ,  he walks .
mark how the tyrant writes .
fine ,  i' faith !
she is daughter to this famous duke of milan ,  of whom so often i have heard renown but never saw before ,  of whom i have received a second life .
all men i hope live so .
we have seen the best of our time .
and so do i.
he hath made me a christian .
therefore the winds ,  piping to us in vain ,  as in revenge ,  have suck'd up from the sea contagious fogs; which ,  falling in the land ,  hath every pelting river made so proud that they have overborne their continents .
come ,  go we to the king; our power is ready; our lack is nothing but our leave .
le roy ?
even for that i thank you .
be thou assured ,  good cassio ,  i will do all my abilities in thy behalf .
for my part, i have walk'd about the streets, submitting me unto the perilous night, and thus unbraced, casca, as you see, have bared my bosom to the thunder-stone; and when the cross blue lightning seem'd to open the breast of heaven, i did present myself even in the aim and very flash of it.
here’s the smell of the blood still .
have you eyes?
ah keeper ,  keeper ,  i have done those things ,  that now give evidence against my soul ,  for edward’s sake ,  and see how he requites me . — o god ,  if my deep prayers cannot appease thee ,  but thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds ,  yet execute thy wrath in me alone !
yet mark'd i where the bolt of cupid fell .
now ,  in the names of all the gods at once ,  upon what meat doth this our caesar feed that he is grown so great ?
what money ,  sir ?
good shepherd ,  tell this youth what ’tis to love .
and how does your content tender your own good fortune?
go with me .
friends am i with you all and love you all ,  upon this hope that you shall give me reasons why and wherein caesar was dangerous .
how do you ,  madam ?
i'll follow it.
live, and hereafter say a madman's mercy bid thee run away.
no, faith, my lord.
whether he was combined with those of norway ,  or did line the rebel with hidden help and vantage ,  or that with both he labor'd in his country's wreck ,  i know not; but treasons capital ,  confess'd and proved ,  have overthrown him .
what sayest thou now ?
therefore ,  as i am bound ,  receive it from me .
a witty mother !
we two, my lord, will guard your person while you take your rest, and watch your safety.
thou art rash as fire ,  to say that she was false .
you’ll be sick tomorrow for this night’s watching .
denmark’s a prison .
i did not think you could have been so angry .
if you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
besides ,  they all are fresh .
my mother stays .
to the jail with him !
let me alone .
to alonso] sir , — [to alonso] sir , — [to antonio] one: tell .
tell him i have moved my lord on his behalf and hope all will be well .
bring me no more reports .
my name is pistol called .
and i do think—or else this brain of mine hunts not the trail of policy so sure as it hath used to do—that i have found the very cause of hamlet’s lunacy .
thou think’st ’tis much that this contentious storm invades us to the skin .
then weigh what loss your honour may sustain if with too credent ear you list his songs ,  or lose your heart ,  or your chaste treasure open to his unmast'red importunity .
what soldiers ,  whey - face ?
i am ,  my lord ,  as well derived as he ,  as well possess'd; my love is more than his; my fortunes every way as fairly rank'd ,  if not with vantage ,  as demetrius'; and ,  which is more than all these boasts can be ,  i am belov'd of beauteous hermia .
believe me ,  king of shadows ,  i mistook .
no, he doth but mistake the truth totally.
othello's occupation's gone !
i was sure your lordship did not give it me .
good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd?
o thou weed ,  who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet that the sense aches at thee ,  would thou hadst ne'er been born !
he comes upon a wish.
wherefore did you so ?
i'll show thee every fertile inch o'th’ island; and i will kiss thy foot .
what ,  are you answered yet ?
all take hands .
alas, alas!
what if i do obey ?
my worthy lord, your noble friends do lack you.
not that i know .
stand ,  an you be a man .
to bed, to bed; there's knocking at the gate.
under this conjuration ,  speak ,  my lord ,  for we will hear ,  note ,  and believe in heart that what you speak is in your conscience washed as pure as sin with baptism .
wilt thou at ninny's tomb meet me straightway ?
how now !
or art thou but a dagger of the mind, a false creation, proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
this is a devil ,  and no monster .
i do well believe your highness ,  and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen ,  who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing .
where the place ?
therefore let benedick ,  like covered fire ,  consume away in sighs ,  waste inwardly .
menas ,  i’ll not on shore .
i loved ophelia.
three thousand ducats;—'tis a good round sum.
tell me ,  thou villain ,  where is my son lucentio ?
horatio—or i do forget myself .
o pyramus ,  arise !
in this time of the night ?
what is the matter ,  my lord ?
what, are they children?
come ,  my spade !
i’ll signify so much unto him straight .
alack ,  i had forgot !
ay, indeed.
why doth the jew pause?
hold ,  my hand .
from top to toe ?
bottom !
hold ,  take these keys and fetch more spices ,  nurse .
what is it thou didst say ?
he doth nothing but frown; as who should say ,  an you will not have me ,  choose; he hears merry tales ,  and smiles not: i fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old ,  being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth .
to the gates of tartar ,  thou most excellent devil of wit !
tomorrow will we be married .
a plague upon this howling !
no ,  sir ,  no jot .
early in the morning see thou deliver it to my lord and father.
who's that?
i would have all well betwixt you .
i know not if't be true; but i for mere suspicion in that kind will do as if for surety.
in christening, shalt thou have two god-fathers; had i been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more, to bring thee to the gallows, not the font.
be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
that’s a question .
oh ,  is that all ?
o any thing, of nothing first create!
so the sins of my mother should be visited upon me .
where is that damnèd villain ,  tranio ,  that faced and braved me in this matter so ?
and i for no woman .
farewell .
yet could i bear that too ,  well ,  very well .
some men there are love not a gaping pig; some, that are mad if they behold a cat; and others, when the bagpipe sings i' the nose, cannot contain their urine: for affection, master of passion, sways it to the mood of what it likes, or loathes.
that ever i should call thee castaway !
well - a - day that you were ,  sir .
let go my hand .
more villain thou . —well ,  push him out of doors and let my officers of such a nature make an extent upon his house and lands .
fare you well, my dove!
well too .
do that good mischief which may make this island thine own for ever ,  and i ,  thy caliban ,  for aye thy foot - licker .
for your desire to know what is between us ,  o'ermaster ’t as you may .
if she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife.
tis a villain, sir, i do not love to look on.
or here ,  or at the capitol .
there is but one mind in all these men ,  and it is bent against caesar .
it cannot be .
young romeo is it ?
what, ho!
o heavens forfend !
lady, shall i lie in your lap?
bring a corollary ,  rather than want a spirit .
i am to blame.
is decius brutus and trebonius there ?
no ,  he doth but mistake the truth totally .
iago, who began't?
i strike quickly ,  being moved .
i have heard of your paintings too ,  well enough .
i mean, in a sort.
look where the youngest wren of nine comes .
whiles i in this affair do thee employ ,  i'll to my queen ,  and beg her indian boy; and then i will her charmed eye release from monster's view ,  and all things shall be peace .
now let it work.
the soul and body rive not more in parting than greatness going off .
that i am guiltless of your father's death, and am most sensibly in grief for it, it shall as level to your judgment pierce as day does to your eye.
those linen cheeks of thine are counselors to fear .
nay, an there were two such, we should have none shortly, for one would kill the other.
follow that lord, and look you mock him not.
tis true indeed ,  so your daughter says .
what say you ,  james soundpost ?
whose grave's this, sir- rah?
have with you .
by heaven, it is as proper to our age to cast beyond ourselves in our opinions as it is common for the younger sort to lack discretion.
i'll be with you straight.
bring the villain forth .
go after her .
list ,  list ,  o ,  list !
i cannot fly ,  but ,  bearlike ,  i must fight the course .
rebellious dead ,  rise never till the wood of birnam rise ,  and our high - placed macbeth shall live the lease of nature ,  pay his breath to time and mortal custom .
stand close awhile ,  for here comes one in haste .
i will ,  my lord .
it is very true .
love takes the meaning in love's conference .
did you see master lorenzo ?
well ,  well ,  thou hast a careful father ,  child; one who ,  to put thee from thy heaviness ,  hath sorted out a sudden day of joy that thou expects not ,  nor i look'd not for .
i will follow you .
what would you with her ,  sir ?
o all you host of heaven !
tis mine and i will have it .
the duke of exeter has very gallantly maintained the pridge .
why ,  true ,  he means to make a puppet of thee .
we please them not by land .
in good time!
why ,  but there’s many a man hath more hair than wit .
room ,  ho !
stanley ,  he is your wife’s son .
i think the sun where he was born drew all such humors from him.
here let them lie till famine and the ague eat them up.
good countrymen, let me depart alone, and, for my sake, stay here with antony.
to gonzalo] though this island seem to be [to gonzalo] though this island seem to be desert , — [to sebastian] ha ,  ha ,  ha !
be warned by me ,  then: they that ride so ,  and ride not warily ,  fall into foul bogs .
how poor are they that have not patience!
call claudio and some other of my men .
by accident most strange ,  bountiful fortune ,  now my dear lady ,  hath mine enemies brought to this shore; and by my prescience i find my zenith doth depend upon a most auspicious star ,  whose influence if now i court not ,  but omit ,  my fortunes will ever after droop .
tybalt ,  you ratcatcher ,  will you walk ?
he did ,  from first to last .
hold you still .
you take pleasure then in the message ?
how now !
and even now ,  but now ,  this house ,  these servants ,  and this same myself are yours ,  my lord’s .
a thousand thousand!
hence, avaunt!
i am glad to see you well.
what a long night is this !
you must take your chance; and either not attempt to choose at all ,  or swear ,  before you choose , —if you choose wrong ,  never to speak to lady afterward in way of marriage; therefore be advis'd .
give me your hand; conduct me to mine host.
within a month, ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears had left the flushing in her galled eyes, she married.
this is one lucianus ,  nephew to the king .
do; with like timorous accent and dire yell as when, by night and negligence, the fire is spied in populous cities.
where the dead body is bestow'd ,  my lord ,  we cannot get from him .
his grace speaks cheerfully .
so do not i .
o, tell not me of fear!
why ,        am i not i' th' right ,  old jephthah ?
if that may be ,  then all is well .
come ,  my fair cordelia .
either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
let me shake thy hand .
had he his hurts before?
if there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of caesar's, to him i say that brutus' love to caesar was no less than his.
let us seek out some desolate shade and there weep our sad bosoms empty.
thou hast my love .
yet must not we put the strong law on him .
i noted her not ,  but i looked on her .
how ?
i am sorry to give breathing to my purpose— help me away ,  dear charmian !
rarely ,  rarely .
gaoler ,  look to him .
three thousand ducats, for three months, and antonio bound.
o sweet bully bottom !
well, god-a-mercy.
speak the speech, i pray you, as i pronounced it to you, trippingly on the tongue.
farewell .
will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher by the ears?
revolving this will teach thee how to curse .
i had rather to adopt a child than get it . — come hither ,  moor .
peradventure, to make it the more gracious, i shall sing it at her death.
good hay ,  sweet hay ,  hath no fellow .
the mighty gods defend thee !
lady, by yonder blessed moon i swear, that tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops— o, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon, that monthly changes in her circled orb, lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
brutus hath rived my heart .
but hush ,  no more .
sure ,  her offense must be of such unnatural degree that monsters it (or your fore - vouched affection fall into taint) ,  which to believe of her must be a faith that reason without miracle could never plant in me .
me thought i heard a voice cry  “ sleep no more !
i have not ’scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs .
the interim’s mine .
i warrant it is to knight you ,  captain .
but do not so .
all ?
she's dead .
do you perceive the gastness of her eye ?
are we all ready?
prepare the body then ,  and follow us .
i’ll make the motion .
go ,  sirrah ,  seek him .
what are you here that cry so grievously ?
the ears are senseless that should give us hearing to tell him his commandment is fulfill'd that rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead.
nay ,  that’s not so .
thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate .
farewell; and if my fortune be not cross'd, i have a father, you a daughter, lost.
dear sovereign ,  hear me speak .
that’s my office .
who serv’st thou under ?
thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword i'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
o ,  here will i set up my everlasting rest and shake the yoke of inauspicious stars from this world - wearied flesh .
your name ,  sir ,  truly .
yes, yes, it was bassanio; as i think, so was he called.
what does the tyrant?
the eye of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream was.
let me shun that .
ay, my lord.
look to your wife; observe her well with cassio; wear your eye thus ,  not jealous nor secure .
return to her ,  and fifty men dismissed ?
did he never make you laugh ?
i have not breathed almost since i did see it .
very strangely, they say.
you ,  mistress ,  all this coil is long of you .
long live the king !
come ,  sit ,  sit ,  and a song .
search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
romeo ,  will you come to your father’s ?
unwilling ,  i agreed .
give him tending; he brings great news.
how sweet is love itself possess'd ,  when but love's shadows are so rich in joy !
where’s antonio ,  then ?
and yours of helena to me bequeath ,  whom i do love and will do till my death .
for i ne'er saw true beauty till this night .
all hell shall stir for this .
oh ,  heaven ,  how got she out ?
when i am alone ,  why then i am tranio; but in all places else ,  your master lucentio .
head to foot now is he total gules, horridly trick'd with blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons.
when duncan is asleep— whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey soundly invite him—his two chamberlains will i with wine and wassail so convince ,  that memory ,  the warder of the brain ,  shall be a fume and the receipt of reason a limbec only .
run one before and let the queen know of our gests .
where is this rash and most unfortunate man ?
but wherefore art not in thy shop today?
so dear i loved the man that i must weep .
take up those cords .
but for all that, to my thinking, he would fain have had it.
i never sued to friend ,  nor enemy; my tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word .
get him to bed ,  and let his hurt be looked to .
who is here so vile that will not love his country?
it is not for your health thus to commit your weak condition to the raw cold morning .
o child!
thy master is a wise and valiant roman; i never thought him worse .
a tomb must cover thy sweet eyes .
finish ,  good lady .
alas ,  my friend and my dear countryman roderigo ?
virtue?
thou makest me merry .
ay .
what ,  lucius !
well, go to, very well.
why should calamity be full of words ?
farewell.
what shall i say ?
come to my woman's breasts, and take my milk for gall, you murdering ministers, wherever in your sightless substances you wait on nature's mischief!
what ,  i say ?
i frown upon him ,  yet he loves me still .
you may think perchance that i think you are in love .
no ,  make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight .
o ,  come in ,  equivocator .
no epilogue, i pray you; for your play needs no excuse.
this is a slave whose easy borrowed pride dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows . — out ,  varlet ,  from my sight !
unless philosophy can make a juliet, displant a town, reverse a prince's doom, it helps not, it prevails not.
briefly ,  sir .
i am maimed for ever .
all hail ,  macbeth !
why should he call her  “ whore ”  ?
and his kinsman too .
but that i love thee best ,  o most best ,  believe it .
o for a falconer's voice to lure this tassel-gentle back again!
farewell.
who's there?
it seems to me that yet we sleep ,  we dream .
who heard me to deny it or forswear it ?
i have heard it over, and it is nothing, nothing in the world; unless you can find sport in their intents, extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain, to do you service.
your case is better .
it shall be call'd ‘bottom's dream , ’ because it hath no bottom; and i will sing it in the latter end of a play ,  before the duke .
i nursed her daughter that you talked withal .
stay illusion !
well ,  i will call beatrice to you ,  who i think hath legs .
what wilt thou do ?
this my mean task would be as heavy to me as odious ,  but the mistress which i serve quickens what's dead and makes my labours pleasures .
i'll about, and drive away the vulgar from the streets; so do you too, where you perceive them thick.
what hast thou to do ? — father ,  be quiet .
go ,  one of you ,  find out the forester .
therefore be merry ,  cassio ,  for thy solicitor shall rather die than give thy cause away .
or stole it ,  rather .
come on ,  to ’t .
madam ,  good night .
god ye good e'en ,  fair gentlewoman .
some dungeon .
every one .
let the devil and his dam haunt you !
very vilely in the morning ,  when he is sober ,  and most vilely in the afternoon ,  when he is drunk .
you sulfurous and thought - executing fires ,  vaunt - couriers of oak - cleaving thunderbolts ,  singe my white head !
why, what should be the fear?
is the single man therefore blessed ?
for my part ,  i am sorry it is turned to a drinking .
fine apparition !
stones have been known to move and trees to speak; augures and understood relations have by maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth the secret'st man of blood.
what would my potent master?
one ,  gentlewoman ,  that god hath made for himself to mar .
it seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an ethiop's ear— beauty too rich for use ,  for earth too dear !
i hid me under the dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of the storm.
i am more an antique romanthan a dane.
forsooth ,  a great arithmetician ,  one michael cassio ,  a florentine a fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife that never set a squadron in the field ,  nor the division of a battle knows more than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric ,  where in the toga'd consuls can propose as masterly as he; mere prattle without practice ,  is all his soldiership .
upon the platform ,  'twixt eleven and twelve ,  i'll visit you .
upon record ,  my gracious lord .
trouble us not .
the great contention of the sea and skies parted our fellowship—   but ,  hark !
therefore thy earliness doth me assure thou art uprous'd with some distemp'rature; or if not so ,  then here i hit it right— our romeo hath not been in bed to - night .
but now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
stay, give me drink.
in some bush ?
lo you, here she comes!
i am .
what ,  is brutus sick ,  and will he steal out of his wholesome bed to dare the vile contagion of the night and tempt the rheumy and unpurged air to add unto his sickness ?
i was the other day talking on the sea - bank with certain venetians ,  and thither comes the bauble and ,  by this hand ,  she falls me thus about my neck— crying  “ o dear cassio !  ”  as it were .
but i shall see the wingèd vengeance overtake such children .
where art thou ,  pindarus ?
by this hand ,  claudio shall render me a dear account .
o ,  let me not be mad ,  not mad ,  sweet heaven !
are they married ,  think you ?
now i perceive they have conjoined all three to fashion this false sport ,  in spite of me . — injurious hermia !
one fairer than my love ?
you jig, you amble, and you lisp; and nickname god's creatures and make your wantonness your ignorance.
ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat in this distracted globe.
i sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
well then ,  your bond; and ,  let me see .
and so farewell ,  signior lucentio .
say on; come to hecuba.
all things that are, are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd.
these moors are changeable in their wills:—fill thy purse with money .
yes, by saint patrick, but there is, horatio, and much offence too.
show .
but soft ,  behold !
sirrah ,  your father’s dead .
give me thy hand .
where's peaseblossom?
heaven keep that monster from othello's mind!
yes ,  sir ,  but anger hath a privilege .
i am the greatest ,  able to do least ,  yet most suspected ,  as the time and place doth make against me ,  of this direful murder .
o romeo ,  romeo !
thou !
it is .
come ,  come ,  you’ll never meet a more sufficient man .
if you be well pleas'd with this, and hold your fortune for your bliss, turn you where your lady is, and claim her with a loving kiss.
romeo slew him; he slew mercutio.
even so lies she ,  blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering .
get thee to a nunnery ,  go .
who then shall blame his pester'd senses to recoil and start ,  when all that is within him does condemn itself for being there ?
even or odd ,  of all days in the year ,  come lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen .
in such a night ,  did jessica steal from the wealthy jew ,  and with an unthrift love did run from venice ,  as far as belmont .
what's the matter now ?
a very gentle beast ,  of a good conscience .
long live gonzalo !
work ,  work your thoughts ,  and therein see a siege .
most monstrous ,  oh !
and i trow this is his house .
here comes the noble antony .
but tell me true ,  are you not mad indeed ?
no ,  my heart is turned to stone; i strike it ,  and it hurts my hand .
friar ,  it cannot be .
thou praisest the worst best .
two hundred ducats .
come ,  come ,  we fear the worst .
buy food and get thyself in flesh.
they have made worms’ meat of me.
come hither ,  proculeius .
away ,  get thee away .
what mean you ,  sir ?
but he loves caesar best; yet he loves antony .
worse and worse !
the turkish preparation makes for rhodes; so was i bid report here to the state by signior angelo.
with patience ,  noble lord ,  as prisoners must .
anon !
nothing, neither way.
i have a head ,  sir ,  that will find out logs ,  and never trouble peter for the matter .
who will go with me?
come ,  vial .
remorseless ,  treacherous ,  lecherous ,  kindless villain !
come hither ,  fellow .
enobarbus ,  welcome .
did he not rather discredit my authority with yours ,  and make the wars alike against my stomach ,  having alike your cause ?
indeed ,  they are disproportioned .
but when they should endure the bloody spur ,  they fall their crests and ,  like deceitful jades ,  sink in the trial .
it is a beast for perseus .
i’ll not endure it .
if thou hadst feared to break an oath by him ,  th' imperial metal circling now thy head had graced the tender temples of my child ,  and both the princes had been breathing here ,  which now ,  two tender bedfellows for dust ,  thy broken faith hath made the prey for worms .
claudio !
horatio—or i do forget myself.
tis monstrous .
all for your delight we are not here .
we'll make our leisures to attend on yours .
no ,  as i am a man .
besides ,  i have some business in the town .
so much for him .
if not ,  to say to thee that i shall die is true ,  but for thy love ,  by the lord ,  no .
now i must to the young man send humble treaties ,  dodge and palter in the shifts of lowness ,  who with half the bulk o’ th’ world played as i pleased ,  making and marring fortunes .
he cannot be heard of.
sir, octavius is already come to rome.
tis some mischance ,  the cry is very direful .
have you sent to bottom's house?
here is better than the open air .
well, honor is the subject of my story.
i will go along.
the lord in heaven bless thee ,  noble harry !
they are ,  my lord .
i’ll know thy thoughts .
when i had at my pleasure taunted her ,  and she in mild terms begg'd my patience ,  i then did ask of her her changeling child; which straight she gave me ,  and her fairy sent to bear him to my bower in fairy land .
thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince, taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law, and turn'd that black word death to banishment.
i prithee ,  be my god .
every inordinate cup is unblessed and the ingredient is a devil .
the trick of that voice i do well remember .
o gentle son ,  upon the heat and flame of thy distemper sprinkle cool patience !
better be with the dead ,  whom we ,  to gain our peace ,  have sent to peace ,  than on the torture of the mind to lie in restless ecstasy .
but ,  let me see ,  by ten we shall have each a hundred englishmen .
i hear him .
twelve year since ,  miranda ,  twelve year since ,  thy father was the duke of milan and a prince of power .
we shall be much unfurnished for this time .
caesar's better parts shall be crown'd in brutus .
what wouldst thou have with me ?
perchance ,  iago ,  i will ne'er go home .
the abuse of greatness is when it disjoins remorse from power ,  and ,  to speak truth of caesar ,  i have not known when his affections sway'd more than his reason .
tell them so ,  decius .
sirrah ,  go hire me twenty cunning cooks .
malcolm and donalbain ,  the king’s two sons ,  are stol'n away and fled ,  which puts upon them suspicion of the deed .
he tells me ,  my dear gertrude ,  he hath found the head and source of all your son’s distemper .
there is but one mind in all these men, and it is bent against caesar.
if you are so fond over her iniquity ,  give her patent to offend ,  for ,  if it touch not you ,  it comes near nobody .
follow not; i'll have no speaking; i will have my bond.
let that suffice you .
good night .
go in with me .
stand you awhile apart; confine yourself but in a patient list .
come ,  bird ,  come .
i will hear further reason for this.
your virtue is my privilege .
long live she so!
get you a place .
poor soul ,  thy face is much abused with tears .
i heard myself proclaimed ,  and by the happy hollow of a tree escaped the hunt .
as for my wife ,  i would you had her spirit in such another .
o excellent motion !
gallop apace ,  you fiery - footed steeds ,  towards phoebus’ lodging !
pray you ,  avoid it .
indeed he is not fit.
oh ,  i could weep my spirit from mine eyes .
be trusty ,  and i’ll quit thy pains .
are you not well?
what a fearful night is this !
our foster nurse of nature is repose ,  the which he lacks—that to provoke in him are many simples operative ,  whose power will close the eye of anguish .
i pitied thee ,  took pains to make thee speak ,  taught thee each hour one thing or other .
mine honor was not yielded ,  but conquered merely .
in sadness ,  cousin ,  i do love a woman .
i held the sword, and he did run on it.
my lord ,  the queen would speak with you ,  and presently .
what was your dream ,  my lord ?
night’s candles are burnt out ,  and jocund day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops .
if we do lose this battle ,  then is this the very last time we shall speak together .
tis a shrewd doubt ,  though it be but a dream .
in my mind's eye, horatio.
demand.
that claims marriage of me ,  i could find in my heart to stay here still ,  and turn witch .
but that you do not love me .
if thy speech be sooth ,  i care not if thou dost for me as much .
faith ,  we may put up our pipes and be gone .
but ,  well .
our son shall win .
i do arrest you ,  sir .
to you i am bound for life and education; my life and education both do learn me how to respect you; you are the lord of duty, i am hitherto your daughter.
o iago ,  the pity of it ,  iago !
what, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
o heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever the soul of nero enter this firm bosom.
here is a rural fellow that will not be denied your highness’ presence .
happy were england would this virtuous prince take on his grave the sovereignty thereof .
it shall advantage more than do us wrong .
therefore, go these griefs and losses have so 'bated me, that i shall hardly spare a pound of flesh to-morrow, to my bloody creditor.
bleed ,  bleed ,  poor country !
or so much as it needs to dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds .
i understand thee not .
some food we had, and some fresh water, that a noble neapolitan, gonzalo, out of his charity,—who being then appointed master of this design,—did give us; with rich garments, linens, stuffs, and necessaries, which since have steaded much; so, of his gentelness knowing i loved my books, he furnished me from mine own library with volumes that i prize above my dukedom.
goes it against the main of poland ,  sir ,  or for some frontier ?
i have been sexton here ,  man and boy ,  thirty years .
very well!
here’s metal more attractive .
but i will wed thee in another key ,  with pomp ,  with triumph ,  and with reveling .
what worser place can i beg in your love , — and yet a place of high respect with me , — than to be used as you use your dog ?
portia is dead.
and lovers' absent hours ,  more tedious than the dial eight score times ?
my ducats, and my daughter!
but ,  hold thee ,  take this garland on thy brow .
fellow, come from the throng; look upon caesar.
do you believe his tenders ,  as you call them ?
alack the day !
i long to hear the story of your life ,  which must take the ear strangely .
must there no more be done ?
vexed i am of late with passions of some difference ,  conceptions only proper to myself ,  which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors; but let not therefore my good friends be grieved— among which number ,  cassius ,  be you one— nor construe any further my neglect than that poor brutus with himself at war forgets the shows of love to other men .
then lead the way ,  good father; and heavens so shine that they may fairly note this act of mine .
he being thus lorded, not only with what my revenue yielded, but what my power might else exact, like one who having into truth, by telling of it, made such a sinner of his memory to credit his own lie, he did believe he was indeed the duke; out o'th’ substitution, and executing the outward face of royalty with all prerogative; hence his ambition growing— dost thou hear?
do you think i’ll be forsworn ?
all the east ,  say thou ,  shall call her mistress .  ”  so he nodded ,  and soberly did mount an arm - gaunt steed ,  who neighed so high that what i would have spoke was beastly dumbed by him .
what's the boy malcolm?
pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but give me your blessing; i am launcelot, your boy that was, your son that is, your child that shall be.
and will she love him still for prating ?
fair love ,  you faint with wandering in the wood; and ,  to speak troth ,  i have forgot our way; we'll rest us ,  hermia ,  if you think it good ,  and tarry for the comfort of the day .
ay ,  marry ,  must you; for you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard ,  and is to come again .
hath an argosy cast away ,  coming from tripolis .
eyes ,  look your last !
i must to the learned .
i have performed your pleasure and my promise .
fear it ,  ophelia .
so will it fare with claudio .
o ,  kiss me through the hole of this vile wall .
come ,  sir ,  away .
in verity you did . —my bones bear witness ,  that since have felt the vigour of his rage .
affection !
seigneur martino and his wife and daughters; county anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady widow of vitruvio; seigneur placentio and his lovely nieces; mercutio and his brother valentine; mine uncle capulet ,  his wife and daughters; my fair niece rosaline and livia;
the sum of all i can ,  i have disclosed .
what then ?
so i do ,  madonna .
come ,  vaughan .
alas, poor country, almost afraid to know itself!
i would thou hadst told me of another father .
o cassio, cassio, cassio!
be gone!
i know not that ,  when he knows what i know .
the cry is still  “ they come !  ”  our castle’s strength will laugh a siege to scorn .
a fourth!
give you good night .
had i as many sons as i have hairs ,  i would not wish them to a fairer death .
tooth that poisons if it bite ,  mastiff ,  greyhound ,  mongrel grim ,
who offered him the crown ?
now ,  as you are a roman ,  tell me true .
what's the disease he means ?
how if the kiss be denied ?
what do they in the north when they should serve their sovereign in the west ?
i did enact julius caesar; i was killed i' the capitol; brutus killed me .
but herein mean i to enrich my pain ,  to have his sight thither and back again .
they were traitors !
he shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear his hopes ’bove wisdom, grace, and fear.
death ,  traitor !
heaven me such uses send, not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!
give me a cup of wine .
they stumble that run fast.
one cried ,   “ god bless us !  ”  and  “ amen ”  the other ,  as they had seen me with these hangman’s hands .
your brother gloucester hates you .
i say ,  amen .
if i could win a lady at leapfrog or by vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back ,  under the correction of bragging be it spoken ,  i should quickly leap into a wife .
why ,  sir ,  cobble you .
hold thy desperate hand .
i am glad of it .
rosalind lacks then the love which teacheth thee that thou and i am one .
to our house.
no ,  my good lord .
i never saw a better - fashioned gown ,  more quaint ,  more pleasing ,  nor more commendable .
holy franciscan friar, brother, ho!
they lack retention .
but if he had not been in drink ,  he would have tickled you othergates than he did .
there's not a nobler man in rome than antony.
then ,  at my farm i have a hundred milch - kine to the pail ,  six score fat oxen standing in my stalls ,  and all things answerable to this portion .
it were a tedious difficulty ,  i think ,  to bring them to that prospect .
tis past ,  and so am i .
and i do know by this they stay for me in pompey’s porch .
let me have your hand .
how now!
keep promise, love.
we hope to make the sender blush at it .
ay ,  and the time seems thirty unto me ,  being all this time abandoned from your bed .
drunk !
so help me every spirit sanctified, as i have spoken for you all my best and stood within the blank of his displeasure for my free speech!
ere i learn love ,  i’ll practice to obey .
dost thou hold there still ?
and from thy hated presence part i so .
lay hand on heart ,  advise .
else the puck a liar call .
my name is roderigo.
i do not well know ,  my lord .
my other self ,  my council’s consistory ,  my oracle ,  my prophet ,  my dear cousin ,  i ,  as a child ,  will go by thy direction toward ludlow then ,  for we’ll not stay behind .
we shall chide downright if i longer stay .
there’s warrant in that theft which steals itself when there’s no mercy left .
ay ,  that they do ,  my lord ,  hercules and his load too .
o, help!
let me enjoy my private .
be lion - mettled ,  proud ,  and take no care who chafes ,  who frets ,  or where conspirers are .
our intent was to be gone from athens ,  where we might ,  without the peril of the athenian law .
therefore have done.
poor tom hath been scared out of his good wits .
may we do so ?
hold, ho!—lieutenant—sir—montano—gentlemen— have you forgot all place of sense and duty?
ay, and briefly.
you heard her say herself ,  it was not i .
then away she started to deal with grief alone .
for who is living, if those two are gone?
look ,  when i vow ,  i weep .
miserable england ,  i prophesy the fearfull’st time to thee that ever wretched age hath looked upon . — come ,  lead me to the block .
as i did stand my watch upon the hill, i look'd toward birnam, and anon, methought, the wood began to move.
you shall do marvellous wisely ,  good reynaldo ,  before you visit him ,  to make inquire of his behaviour .
no more ,  i pray thee; i am half afeard ,  thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee ,  thou spend'st such high - day wit in praising him .
and she's fair i love .
i’ll do ’t ,  but it dislikes me .
this love that thou hast shown doth add more grief to too much of mine own .
i think i can discover him, if you please to get good guard, and go along with me.
my husband is on earth ,  my faith in heaven .
how fares your majesty ?
thou know’st ’tis common .
unless he have a fancy to this foolery ,  as it appears he hath ,  he is no fool for fancy ,  as you would have it appear he is .
it proves not so .
than my lord hastings no man might be bolder .
nay, good goose, bite not!
o ,  cry your mercy ,  sir . —        tom’s a - cold .
was it so late ,  friend ,  ere you went to bed ,  that you do lie so late ?
one speech in it i chiefly loved .
ay ,  mistress ,  and petruchio is the master ,  that teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long to tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue .
nay ,  you must name his name ,  and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through ,  saying thus ,  or to the same defect: —‘ladies , ’ —or ‘fair ladies , —i would wish you’—or ‘i would request you’ —or ‘i would entreat you , —not to fear ,  not to tremble .
did michael cassio ,  when you woo'd my lady ,  know of your love ?
look here upon this picture ,  and on this ,  the counterfeit presentment of two brothers .
thieves!
for thy escape would teach me tyranny ,  to hang clogs on them . —i have done ,  my lord .
i prithee speak to me as to thy thinkings ,  as thou dost ruminate ,  and give thy worst of thoughts the worst of words .
sir ,  amen .
most welcome home!
is your man secret ?
signior ,  is all your family within ?
one would think his mother’s milk were scarce out of him .
before me !
indeed ?
who comes here ?
beshrew me but i love her heartily .
i lack iniquity sometimes to do me service .
my lord .
nay ,  then you lie .
only i yield to die .
and yet to me what is this quintessence of dust?
the time and my intents are savage - wild ,  more fierce and more inexorable far than empty tigers or the roaring sea .
and she’s fair i love .
go make you ready .
fare thee well ,  dame .
sweet mistress—what your name is else i know not ,  nor by what wonder you do hit of mine , —
i will pour some in [caliban drinks] thy other mouth .
shylock, albeit i neither lend nor borrow, by taking, nor by giving of excess, yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend, i'll break a custom:—is he yet possess'd how much you would?
it is the wittiest partition that ever i heard discourse ,  my lord .
wilt thou not ,  jule ?  ”  it stinted and said  “ ay .  ”  and stint thou too ,  i pray thee ,  nurse ,  say i .
out ,  fool .
there is a tide in the affairs of men which taken at the flood leads on to fortune; omitted ,  all the voyage of their life is bound in shallows and in miseries .
what's in a name?
if it will please caesar to be so good to caesar as to hear me, i shall beseech him to befriend himself.
patience perforce with wilful choler meeting makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
or else it stood upon the choice of friends— o hell ,  to choose love by another’s eyes !
let it go all.
do not for one repulse forgo the purpose that you resolved t'effect .
and i’ll sleep .
what, ho!
confined together in the same fashion as you gave in charge ,  just as you left them ,  all prisoners ,  sir ,  in the line grove which weather - fends your cell .
a pound of man’s flesh taken from a man is not so estimable ,  profitable neither ,  as flesh of muttons ,  beefs ,  or goats .
this will put them out of fear.
what ,  now ?
as thou art to thyself .
leave wringing of your hands .
prithee ,  tonight lay on my bed my wedding sheets .
what ladybird!
let her have your voice .
what ,  art thou drawn among these heartless hinds ?
marry ,  sir ,  here's my drift ,  and i believe it is a fetch of warrant .
god give him joy !
mooncalf ,  speak once in thy life ,  if thou beest a good mooncalf .
peace be with burgundy .
i have received a hurt .
that dreamers often lie .
o rejoice beyond a common joy!
had i but died an hour before this chance ,  i had lived a blessèd time ,  for from this instant there’s nothing serious in mortality .
till birnam wood remove to dunsinane i cannot taint with fear .
give me your answer ,  i' faith ,  do; and so clap hands and a bargain .
he would not take the crown; therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious .
o ,  i were damn'd beneath all depth in hell ,  but that i did proceed upon just grounds to this extremity .
for our losses ,  his exchequer is too poor; for th' effusion of our blood ,  the muster of his kingdom too faint a number; and for our disgrace ,  his own person ,  kneeling at our feet but a weak and worthless satisfaction .
to the health of our general !
this fellow doth not stand upon points .
fear me not . — she and the duke her husband !
exchange me for a goat, when i shall turn the business of my soul to such exsufflicate and blown surmises, matching thy inference.
antonio and old shylock ,  both stand forth .
tarry ,  good beatrice .
yes ,  certainly ,  and out of doubt and out of question ,  too ,  and ambiguities .
what’s your name ?
young romeo is it ?
o ,  rejoice beyond a common joy ,  and set it down with gold on lasting pillars .
alas ,  he's mad !
if it be so as so ’tis put on me— and that in way of caution—i must tell you ,  you do not understand yourself so clearly as it behooves my daughter and your honor .
you told me so .
a joint stool .
towards chertsey ,  noble lord ?
there is some strange misprision in the princes .
where shall we meet i' the morning?
within this hour i was his bondman sir ,  but he ,  i thank him ,  gnawed in two my cords .
his indignation derives itself out of a very competent injury .
wilt thou do this ?
an thou make minstrels of us ,  look to hear nothing but discords .
i would i were ,  to be revenged on thee .
how does hamlet?
then must we look from his age to receive not alone the imperfections of long - engrafted condition ,  but therewithal the unruly waywardness that infirm and choleric years bring with them .
go, some of you; whoe'er you find attach.
if you were men ,  as men you are in show ,  you would not use a gentle lady so: to vow ,  and swear ,  and superpraise my parts ,  when i am sure you hate me with your hearts .
who can control his fate ?
make the doors upon a woman’s wit ,  and it will out at the casement .
o, fie upon thee, slanderer!
i will see them .
too familiar is my dear son with such sour company.
if thou the next night following enjoy not desdemona ,  take me from this world with treachery and devise engines for my life .
and i with him .
let him alone ,  for i remember now how he’s employed .
i am debating of my present store ,  and by the near guess of my memory i cannot instantly raise up the gross of full three thousand ducats .
for often ,  with a solemn earnestness— more than indeed belonged to such a trifle— he begged of me to steal it .
what fear is this which startles in our ears ?
the skies ,  the fountains ,  every region near seemed all one mutual cry .
you that choose not by the view ,  chance as fair ,  and choose as true !
and till she come, as truly as to heaven i do confess the vices of my blood, so justly to your grave ears i'll present how i did thrive in this fair lady's love and she in mine.
ariel ,  thy charge exactly is performed; but there's more work .
to th' church take the priest ,  clerk ,  and some sufficient honest witnesses .
an he should ,  it were an alms to hang him .
the dram of evil doth all the noble substance of a doubt to his own scandal .
a friend .
are you full of them ?
rest you happy !
it would become me as well as it does you; and i should do it with much more ease, for my good will is to it, and yours it is against.
i saw mark antony offer him a crown (yet ’twas not a crown neither ,  ’twas one of these coronets) and ,  as i told you ,  he put it by once—but ,  for all that ,  to my thinking ,  he would fain have had it .
or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe.
if she should break it now!
caesar ,  i never stood on ceremonies ,  yet now they fright me .
farewell!
he’ll be hanged yet ,  though every drop of water swear against it and gape at widest to glut him .
judge me, you gods!
i call thee not .
no ,  i will not .
let me choose; for ,  as i am ,  i live upon the rack .
a friend ?
why ,  what’s the matter ?
the curfew bell hath rung .
it may be ,  very like .
should you do so ,  my lord ,  my speech should fall into such vile success which my thoughts aimed not at .
masters ,  spread yourselves .
do i look like a cudgel ,  or a hovel - post ,  a staff ,  or a prop ?
his beard was grizzled ,  no ?
let him kill one first .
what foul play had we that we came from thence?
so doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle gently entwist; the female ivy so enrings the barky fingers of the elm .
or did i dream it so ?
go, get thee in yaughan; fetch me a stoup of liquor.
if i once stir, or do but lift this arm, the best of you shall sink in my rebuke.
what!
madam, you have bereft me of all words; only my blood speaks to you in my veins, and there is such confusion in my powers, as, after some oration fairly spoke by a beloved prince, there doth appear among the buzzing pleased multitude; where every something, being blent together, turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy, express'd and not express'd.
i have two nights watched with you ,  but can perceive no truth in your report .
is it true ?
she robs thee of thy name ,  and thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous when she is gone .
come you to make confession to this father ?
why then, god's soldier be he!
therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone .
well ,  god - a - mercy .
bear hence this body ,  and attend our will .
i thank your honour . —for my part ,  my lord ,  my purpose was not to have seen you here; but meeting with salerio by the way ,  he did entreat me ,  past all saying nay ,  to come with him along .
come .
beshrew him for ’t !
and now they do re - stem their backward course ,  bearing with frank appearance their purposes toward cyprus .
talk not to me ,  for i'll not speak a word .
what do you mean?
adieu ,  adieu ,  adieu !
oh ,  farewell !
so he does indeed .
but what of cicero ?
and they have conspired together .
approach, my ariel, come!
i have heard it said so .
that is hot ice and wondrous strange snow .
it is not day .
tis an unweeded garden that grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature possess it merely.
now know you ,  casca ,  i have moved already some certain of the noblest - minded romans to undergo with me an enterprise of honorable - dangerous consequence .
ah ,  what an unkind hour is guilty of this lamentable chance !
my back o’ t’ other side,—ah, my back, my back!
tis a fair young man ,  and well attended .
fear not ,  till birnam wood do come to dunsinane ,  ”  and now a wood comes toward dunsinane .
true ,  he hath my love; and what is mine my love shall render him; and she is mine; and all my right of her i do estate unto demetrius .
i will make your peace with him if i can .
i shall devise something .
it is written that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last, the fisher with his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but i am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ, and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ.
and stand indebted ,  over and above ,  in love and service to you evermore .
what would my potent master ?
my only love, sprung from my only hate!
there are things in this comedy of pyramus and thisbe that will never please .
my fairy lord ,  this must be done with haste .
methinks i see thee ,  now thou art below ,  as one dead in the bottom of a tomb .
i will not disclose 'em .
i would not so much as make water but in a sink - a - pace .
i'll silence me even here .
shall caesar send a lie?
do ’t .
no ,  my good lord .
caesar doth bear me hard ,  but he loves brutus .
tis not needed yet.
how long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
signor ,  you are very near my brother in his love .
so that in these ten thousand they have lost ,  there are but sixteen hundred mercenaries .
portia ,  art thou gone ?
and that you would have me to do?
what’s he that wishes so ?
we have none such ,  sir .
why ,  for that too .
keep your cabins .
then shall the sighs of octavia blow the fire up in caesar ,  and ,  as i said before ,  that which is the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of their variance .
this ,  decius brutus .
hold you the watch tonight ?
so do i, his.
thanks ,  dear my lord .
was that my father that went hence so fast ?
a noble prisoner !
mean you his majesty ?
good madonna ,  give me leave to prove you a fool .
treason has done his worst; nor steel nor poison ,  malice domestic ,  foreign levy ,  nothing can touch him further .
i will preach to thee .
o love !
a touch ,  a touch; i do confess .
and she is mine ,  and all my right of her i do estate unto demetrius .
god pardon him!
cried he ?
do not muse at me ,  my most worthy friends .
o ,  falsely ,  falsely murdered !
this is the imposthume of much wealth and peace, that inward breaks, and shows no cause without why the man dies.
alas, poor rogue!
swagger?
give me your arm .
swell, bosom, with thy fraught, for 'tis of aspics' tongues!
his honor and myself are at the one ,  and at the other is my good friend catesby ,  where nothing can proceed that toucheth us whereof i shall not have intelligence .
i must once in a month recount what thou hast been, which thou forget'st.
both by myself and many other friends; but he ,  his own affections’ counsellor ,  is to himself—i will not say how true— but to himself so secret and so close ,  so far from sounding and discovery ,  as is the bud bit with an envious worm ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air or dedicate his beauty to the sun .
go to ,  i’ll no more on ’t .
what is it that you would impart to me ?
if he say so ,  may his pernicious soul rot half a grain a day !
how all occasions do inform against me and spur my dull revenge!
out, damned spot!
when did she send thee ?
thrice - blessed they that master so their blood to undergo such maiden pilgrimage; but earthlier happy is the rose distill'd than that which ,  withering on the virgin thorn grows ,  lives ,  and dies ,  in single blessedness .
i am, my lord, as well derived as he, as well possess'd; my love is more than his; my fortunes every way as fairly rank'd, if not with vantage, as demetrius'; and, which is more than all these boasts can be, i am belov'd of beauteous hermia.
we shall, my lord.
dispatch us with all speed ,  lest that our king come here himself to question our delay ,  for he is footed in this land already .
in my mind’s eye ,  horatio .
i’ll go another way to work with him .
how oft to - night have my old feet stumbled at graves !
how far is't call'd to forres ?
what imports the nomination of this gentleman ?
nay then ,  come on ,  and take the chance of anger .
count ,  take of me my daughter ,  and with her my fortunes .
come ,  some music !
here, lord bassanio; swear to keep this ring.
but let it be .
by my troth, nerissa, my little body is a-weary of this great world.
you are now out of your text .
what is the cause, laertes, that thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
when went there by an age ,  since the great flood ,  but it was famed with more than with one man ?
do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
fie ,  fie !
come ,  where’s the chain ?
i can no more .
no ,  i am promised forth .
good morrow ,  catesby . — you may jest on ,  but ,  by the holy rood ,  i do not like these several councils ,  i .
i take my leave at once .
burn !
an i were so apt to quarrel as thou art ,  any man should buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter .
come ,  tears ,  confound; out ,  sword ,  and wound the pap of pyramus; ay ,  that left pap ,  where heart doth hop .
portia, forgive me this enforced wrong; and, in the hearing of these many friends, i swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes, wherein i see myself,— mark you but that!
you men of cyprus ,  let her have your knees .
we will ourselves provide.
phoebe ,  with all my heart .
then fall ,  caesar !
and in part him ,  but ,  ”  you may say ,   “ not well .
i am not to you known, though, in your state of honor i am perfect.
the prayers of holy saints and wrongèd souls ,  like high - reared bulwarks ,  stand before our faces .
the fiend gives the more friendly counsel .
i pray you ,  sir ,  go forth ,  and give us truth who 'tis that is arrived .
myself the man i' th' moon do seem to be— this is the greatest error of all the rest .
and this report hath so exasperate the king that he prepares for some attempt of war .
for both ,  my lord .
be this the whetstone of your sword.
arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, who is already sick and pale with grief that thou her maid art far more fair than she.
come ,  death ,  and welcome !
pray heavens he be; for i have served him ,  and the man commands like a full soldier .
how does my old acquaintance of this isle ? — honey ,  you shall be well desired in cyprus ,  i have found great love amongst them .
you are a saucy boy .
i will apprehend him.
and then for her to win the moor ,  were't to renounce his baptism ,  all seals and symbols of redeemed sin ,  his soul is so enfetter'd to her love ,  that she may make ,  unmake ,  do what she list ,  even as her appetite shall play the god with his weak function .
what says romeo ?
the other did not so.
go in, nerissa; give order to my servants, that they take no note at all of our being absent hence; nor you, lorenzo:—jessica, nor you.
go hence .
happy be theseus ,  our renownèd duke .
we are blest that rome is rid of him .
so it should be ,  that none but antony should conquer antony ,  but woe ’tis so !
o cursed ,  cursed slave !
it will be short; the interim is mine ,  and a man's life's is no more than to say 'one .
madam ,  with all my heart ,  i shall obey you in all fair commands .
what should i speak ?
what can it not ?
o bottom, thou art changed!
darkness and devils !
why ,  madam ,  have i offered love for this ,  to be so flouted in this royal presence ?
soft ,  who comes here ?
they never meet but there’s a skirmish of wit between them .
you cannot revel into dukedoms there .
be you constant in the accusation ,  and my cunning shall not shame me .
here is the money.
he speaks well .
call peter; he will show thee where they are .
indeed!
there’s two or three of us have seen strange sights .
sir ,  i shall study deserving .
the chariest maid is prodigal enough if she unmask her beauty to the moon .
more company !
god knows when we shall meet again.
farewell ,  therefore ,  hero .
the time is very short .
rebellious hell ,  if thou canst mutine in a matron's bones ,  to flaming youth let virtue be as wax and melt in her own fire .
where should we have our thanks ?
how now, ophelia?
govern these ventages with your fingers and thumbs ,  give it breath with your mouth ,  and it will discourse most eloquent music .
if good ,  thou shamest the music of sweet news by playing it to me with so sour a face .
out on her, hilding!
i have ,  since i was three year old ,  conversed with a magician ,  most profound in his art and yet not damnable .
to our house .
what though he love your hermia ?
in his livery walked crowns and crownets .
and i as i love hastings with my heart .
duke frederick ,  hearing how that every day men of great worth resorted to this forest ,  addressed a mighty power ,  which were on foot in his own conduct ,  purposely to take his brother here and put him to the sword .
i have heard my father name him .
look ,  here comes a walking fire .
nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through, saying thus, or to the same defect: —‘ladies,’ —or ‘fair ladies,—i would wish you’—or ‘i would request you’ —or ‘i would entreat you,—not to fear, not to tremble.
so could i ,  faith ,  boy ,  to have the next wish after ,  that lucentio indeed had baptista’s youngest daughter .
but this is trifling ,  and all the more it seeks to hide itself the bigger bulk it shows .
i am loath to tell you what i would you knew .
show me ,  show me .
he.
since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear; which is—no ,  no—which was the fairest dame that lived ,  that loved ,  that liked ,  that looked with cheer .
we pray you throw to earth this unprevailing woe ,  and think of us as of a father; for let the world take note you are the most immediate to our throne ,  and with no less nobility of love than that which dearest father bears his son do i impart toward you .
what ring gave you my lord ?
then he’s a rogue ,  and a passy - measures pavin .
the count himself here hard by woos her .
believe me, i had rather have lost my purse full of crusadoes; and, but my noble moor is true of mind and made of no such baseness as jealous creatures are, it were enough to put him to ill thinking.
his horses go about .
lead me on .
but my uncle-father and aunt- mother are deceived.
look ,  my lord ,  it comes !
let me entreat you .
i go, i go; look how i go, swifter than arrow from the tartar's bow.
if your mind dislike anything ,  obey it .
ceres ,  most bounteous lady ,  thy rich leas of wheat ,  rye ,  barley ,  vetches ,  oats ,  and peas; thy turfy mountains ,  where live nibbling sheep ,  and flat meads thatched with stover ,  them to keep; thy banks with pionèd and twillèd brims ,
take thrice thy money .
i had it of leah when i was a bachelor .
fly further off ,  my lord ,  fly further off; mark antony is in your tents ,  my lord; fly ,  therefore ,  noble cassius ,  fly far off .
how am i then a villain to counsel cassio to this parallel course ,  directly to his good ?
why, farewell, portia.
mark'd ye his words?
prince ,  as thou art true ,  for blood of ours ,  shed blood of montague .
or wilt thou hunt ?
to withdraw with you— why do you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me into a toil?
take note ,  take note ,  o world ,  to be direct and honest is not safe .
thou hast some suit to caesar, hast thou not?
thanks ,  guildenstern and gentle rosencrantz .
i go ,  my lord .
now ,  if this suit lay in bianca's power ,  how quickly should you speed !
pray you ,  keep seat .
now ,  catesby ,  what says his grace ?
o, she was foul!
my lord, i did intend it.
go to ,  farewell .
my lord, i'll tell my lady you will come.
how begot ,  how nourished ?
aside] it goes on, i see, [aside] as my soul prompts it.
what is the matter ,  lady ?
is this well done ?
you shall be a woodmonger and buy nothing of me but cudgels .
true ,  my lord .
thieves !
o, fie upon them!
chastisement?
what ,  must our mouths be cold ?
is ’t not well done ?
lead me from hence .
neither, my lord.
ay me, what act, that roars so loud and thunders in the index?
kind gentlemen ,  let's go see poor cassio dress'd .
and this report hath so exasperated the king that he prepares for some attempt of war .
i fear your disposition .
i'll call upon you ere you go to bed and tell you what i know.
for fear of that i still will stay with thee and never from this palace of dim night depart again.
if by direct or by collateral hand they find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give, our crown, our life, and all that we call ours, to you in satisfaction; but if not, be you content to lend your patience to us, and we shall jointly labour with your soul to give it due content.
what is the news?
taurus !
there is tears for his love ,  joy for his fortune ,  honor for his valor ,  and death for his ambition .
he is a dreamer .
alack ,  ’tis he .
get you gone ,  and at the pit of acheron meet me i' th' morning .
there's millions now alive that nightly lie in those unproper beds which they dare swear peculiar .
with what i get ,  i mean ,  and so do they .
pray you ,  let cassio be received again .
wilt thou let him ,  my lord ?
my liege ,  your highness now may do me good .
what you would have i’ll stay to know at your abandoned cave .
in such a time as this it is not meet that every nice offense should bear his comment.
hark ,  how they knock !
faith, we may put up our pipes and be gone.
let us rather hold fast the mortal sword ,  and like good men bestride our downfall'n birthdom .
i’ll lay fourteen of my teeth—and yet ,  to my teen be it spoken ,  i have but four—she is not fourteen .
ay ,  if i be alive and your mind hold and your dinner worth the eating .
that you did fear is done .
never did i know a creature that did bear the shape of man so keen and greedy to confound a man .
do thy worst .
peace ,  fool .
i know he will be glad of our success; we are the jasons ,  we have won the fleece .
tis caesar that you mean, is it not, cassius?
had my lips that power ,  thus would i wear them out .
monster ,  come ,  put some lime upon your fingers ,  and away with the rest .
the revenges we are bound to take upon your traitorous father are not fit for your beholding .
would he were fatter!
not so ,  i do beseech your majesty .
they that have done this deed are honorable .
so i to her and so she yields to me ,  for i am rough and woo not like a babe .
the one ,  to save the money that he spends in tiring; the other ,  that at dinner they should not drop in his porridge .
i will not swear these are my hands .
dismayed not this our captains ,  macbeth and banquo ?
and every object that might make me fear misfortune to my ventures out of doubt would make me sad .
o ,  no !
what news ?
what ,  a play toward !
and sowing the kernels of it in the sea ,  bring forth more islands .
you were best to tell antonio what you hear; yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.
it harrows me with fear and wonder .
i prithee, take thy fingers from my throat; for, though i am not splenitive and rash, yet have i in me something dangerous, which let thy wisdom fear.
a truant disposition, good my lord.
i am a spirit of no common rate; the summer still doth tend upon my state; and i do love thee; therefore, go with me.
who can be wise ,  amazed ,  temp'rate ,  and furious ,  loyal and neutral ,  in a moment ?
would they were clysterpipes for your sake !
no.
she was ,  good curtis ,  before this frost .
now he’ll outstare the lightning .
ah ,  poor heart ,  he is so shaked of a burning quotidian tertian that it is most lamentable to behold .
take this from this, if this be otherwise.
he keeps them ,  like an ape ,  in the corner of his jaw; first mouth'd ,  to be last swallowed .
of love ?
in practice let us put it presently .
no ,  by mine honor ,  madam .
hath he asked for me ?
he took me by the wrist and held me hard; then goes he to the length of all his arm, and, with his other hand thus o'er his brow, he falls to such perusal of my face as he would draw it.
of all the days i' the year, i came to't that day that our last king hamlet overcame fortinbras.
hence .
so think thou wilt no second husband wed; but die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead .
thou liest; thou canst not .
though i die for it—as no less is threatened me—the king my old master must be relieved .
myself myself confound ,  heaven and fortune bar me happy hours ,  day ,  yield me not thy light ,  nor night thy rest ,  be opposite all planets of good luck to my proceedings if ,  with dear heart’s love ,  immaculate devotion ,  holy thoughts ,  i tender not thy beauteous princely daughter .
why ,  look you now ,  how unworthy a thing you make of me !
your love says, like an honest gentleman, “where is your mother?”’ o god's lady dear!
now fear i this will give it start again; therefore let's follow.
i fear our purpose is discovered .
this is the foul fiend flibbertigibbet .
but that i love thee best, o most best, believe it.
what name ,  fair lady ?
look ,  don pedro is returned to seek you .
and do still ,  by these pickers and stealers .
what, in our house?
where is the master ,  boatswain ?
not if the small come first .
observe his construction of it .
so take her to thee ,  shepherd .
twas you we laughed at.
i dare not say he lies anywhere.
her worth being mounted on the wind ,  through all the world bears rosalind .
an if he hear thee ,  thou wilt anger him .
a cup, clos'd in my true love's hand?
why ,  our battalia trebles that account .
those his goodly eyes ,  that o’er the files and musters of the war have glowed like plated mars ,  now bend ,  now turn the office and devotion of their view upon a tawny front .
i am almost afraid to stand alone here in the churchyard; yet i will adventure .
oh ,  wonder !
while then, god be with you!
do, good my friend.
the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers .
the villain jew with outcries raised the duke ,  who went with him to search bassanio’s ship .
say, what abridgment have you for this evening?
music ,  ho !
i like him not ,  nor stands it safe with us to let his madness range .
for this ,  be sure ,  tonight thou shalt have cramps ,  side - stitches that shall pen thy breath up .
i will possess you of that ship and treasure .
but thy vile race ,  though thou didst learn ,  had that in ’t which good natures could not abide to be with .
where?
o antony ,  o thou arabian bird !
ask for me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man.
well ,  praised be the gods for thy foulness; sluttishness may come hereafter .
tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this, unless thou tell me how i may prevent it.
where is your husband ?
nay ,  i know not .
run away ,  i pray you !
my father’s bears more toward the marketplace .
but oh ,  how vile an idol proves this god !
as you shall prove us ,  praise us .
i hope thou art not mad .
o my son, what theme?
i not doubt he came alive to land .
i will hear brutus speak .
to punish me for what you make me do seems much unequal .
he looks gentler than he did .
think you of a worse title ,  and i will fit her to it .
wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant ?
a mote will turn the balance, which pyramus, which thisbe, is the better,—he for a man, god warrant us: she for a woman, god bless us!
but who is with him ?
none ,  man .
o honey nurse ,  what news ?
so is the dear'st o'th’ loss .
my lord, you play'd once i' th' university, you say?
to have a foolish wife.
fear you not my part of the dialogue .
come on .
then must you speak of one that loved not wisely ,  but too well .
why ,  then ,  build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valor .
oh ,  how mine eyes do loathe his visage now !
what ,  still in tears ,  evermore showering ?
i'll silence me even here.
i take some joy to say you are because i would be talking of her .
signior lodovico?
look to the lady.
shall we give o'er and drown ?
cassio's a proper man.
shall we go seek benedick and tell him of her love ?
what were these ?
but, peace!
o ,  is that all ?
one ,  sir ,  that for his love dares yet do more than you have heard him brag to you he will .
tis time i should inform thee farther .
lucentio ,  gentle sir .
do you not come your tardy son to chide, that, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by the important acting of your dread command?
now will i question cassio of bianca, a housewife that by selling her desires buys herself bread and clothes.
marry, a perfumed one.
tis false .
your wives, your daughters, your matrons, and your maids could not fill up the cistern of my lust, and my desire all continent impediments would o'erbear that did oppose my will.
i hoped there was no need to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet .
alas the heavy day !
let them be well used; for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time .
i am not well .
i do know, when the blood burns, how prodigal the soul lends the tongue vows.
please ,  let me stay .
judge me ,  you gods !
good morrow ,  noble sir .
soft !
what’s the matter ?
do they grow rusty ?
alas ,  who knows ?
nor for yours neither .
it is not meet you know how caesar loved you .
this is the pent-house, under which lorenzo desir'd us to make stand.
i would not marry her ,  though she were endowed with all that adam had left him before he transgressed .
tis a worthy governor .
get thee gone ,  but do it .
a gallant curtal - axe upon my thigh ,  a boar - spear in my hand ,  and in my heart lie there what hidden woman’s fear there will ,  we’ll have a swashing and a martial outside— as many other mannish cowards have that do outface it with their semblances .
fast ,  i warrant her ,  she .
such men as he be never at heart's ease whiles they behold a greater than themselves ,  and therefore are they very dangerous .
therefore to horse; and let us not be dainty of leave - taking ,  but shift away .
o ,  then i see you will part but with light gifts .
shall i not have barely my principal ?
base is the slave that pays .
ratcliffe ,  my lord ,  ’tis i .
these griefs ,  these woes ,  these sorrows make me old .
heaven knows what she has known .
would they were clysterpipes for your sake!
i never gave him cause .
not i, my lord.
what ,  sir ,  not yet at rest ?
no more !
ay ,  if messala will prefer me to you .
i called thee then  “ vain flourish of my fortune .  ”  i called thee then poor shadow ,   “ painted queen ,  ”  the presentation of but what i was ,  the flattering index of a direful pageant ,  one heaved a - high ,  to be hurled down below ,  a mother only mocked with two fair babes ,  a dream of what thou wast ,  a garish flag to be the aim of every dangerous shot ,  a sign of dignity ,  a breath ,  a bubble ,  a queen in jest ,  only to fill the scene .
that cuckold lives in bliss who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger; but o, what damned minutes tells he o'er who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves!
o romeo ,  romeo ,  brave mercutio is dead !
will you hear ’t again ?
stand !
what is the matter ?
but wherefore do you hold me here so long ?
what ,  shall this speech be spoke for our excuse ?
the quarrel is between our masters and us their men .
i am very ill at ease, unfit for mine own purposes.
thou coward ,  art thou bragging to the stars ,  telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars ,  and wilt not come ?
with cassio, mistress.
get thee to bed .
can you not hate me ,  as i know you do ,  but you must join in souls to mock me too ?
and weep ye now ,  seeing she is advanced above the clouds ,  as high as heaven itself ?
i marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are .
do poor tom some charity ,  whom the foul fiend vexes .
william ,  sir .
i fear it ,  i promise you .
my lord ,  i will use them according to their desert .
i know the good king and queen have sent for you .
ay.
i’ll not be made a soft and dull - eyed fool to shake the head ,  relent and sigh ,  and yield to christian intercessors .
mad as the sea and wind when both contend which is the mightier.
this is not the way to win your daughter .
he leads himself .
shall i hear more, or shall i speak at this?
i dreamt a dream tonight .
good my complexion ,  dost thou think though i am caparisoned like a man ,  i have a doublet and hose in my disposition ?
how ,  i pray ?
sings] [sings] come unto these yellow sands, and than take hands; curtsied when you have and the kissed— the wild waves whist— foot it featly here and there, and, sweet sprites, bear the burden.
i’ll fish for thee and get thee wood enough .
this is the imposthume of much wealth and peace ,  that inward breaks ,  and shows no cause without why the man dies .
we are very sorry for't.
give me that man that is not passion's slave ,  and i will wear him in my heart's core ,  ay ,  in my heart of heart ,  as i do thee .
when last i was at exeter ,  the mayor in courtesy showed me the castle and called it rougemont ,  at which name i started ,  because a bard of ireland told me once i should not live long after i saw richmond .
the devil take thy soul!
retire !
why do people love you ?
lead me to my chamber .
and ,  if not so ,  how should i wrong a brother ?
fire and brimstone !
give welcome to my friend .
fight valiantly today .
must there no more be done ?
i pray thee ,  rosalind ,  sweet my coz ,  be merry .
thou canst not .
what says that fool of hagar's offspring; ha?
so is my horse, octavius, and for that i do appoint him store of provender.
even such a husband hast thou of me, as she is for a wife.
o heaven defend me!
what should such a fool do with so good a wife?
how foolish do your fears seem now ,  calphurnia !
i have years on my back forty -  eight .
well be with you ,  gentlemen .
swear .
you’re welcome ,  sir ,  and he for your good sake .
she that would be your wife now ran from you .
upon what bargain do you give it me ?
nor from mine own weak merits will i draw the smallest fear or doubt of her revolt; for she had eyes and chose me .
marry ,  sir ,  because silver hath a sweet sound .
too old to be engaged to young .
ay, if a woman live to be a man.
his nurse ?
dost thou in conscience think—tell me ,  emilia— that there be women do abuse their husbands in such gross kind ?
ay; and let none enter ,  lest i break your pate .
keep your word ,  silvius ,  that you’ll marry her if she refuse me .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
in praising antony ,  i have dispraised caesar .
we are less afraid to be drowned than thou art .
alas ,  poor caitiff !
arise, i say!
you always end with a jade’s trick .
rescue ,  fair lord ,  or else the day is lost !
wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so pale.
tis true ,  my liege; this ring i had of her .
i hope all will be well.
go ask his name . —if he be married .
but now the duke of buckingham and i are come from visiting his majesty .
what a brazen - faced varlet art thou to deny thou knowest me !
there ,  give it your hobby - horse .
where do you dwell ?
now ,  infidel ,  i have thee on the hip .
so should we you ,  if you should be our king .
hold ,  worthy lady ,  hold !
no epilogue ,  i pray you ,  for your play needs no excuse .
zounds, sir, you are one of those that will not serve god, if the devil bid you.
but who comes here ?
what man dost thou dig it for ?
and so far blameless proves my enterprise, that i have 'nointed an athenian's eyes; and so far am i glad it so did sort, as this their jangling i esteem a sport.
ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time; but i will watch you from such watching now.
alack ,  sir ,  he is mad .
grieve not that i am fall'n to this for you ,  for herein fortune shows herself more kind than is her custom .
all is but toys .
down, strumpet!
let me see your eyes; look in my face .
my charms i’ll break ,  their senses i’ll restore ,  and they shall be themselves .
so smile the heavens upon this holy act that after - hours with sorrow chide us not !
we will ,  fair queen ,  up to the mountain’s top ,  and mark the musical confusion of hounds and echo in conjunction .
hear me yet ,  good shylock .
soldier ,  why wear’st thou that glove in thy cap ?
let that suffice you.
how is't ,  laertes ?
patience, i say; your mind perhaps may change.
i'll make so bold to call, for ’tis my limited service.
how now ,  what’s the matter ?
go ,  lovell ,  with all speed to doctor shaw .
then bid them prepare dinner .
what ,  shall we toward the tower ?
i’ll not be far from you .
with all my heart .
john duke of norfolk ,  thomas earl of surrey ,  shall have the leading of this foot and horse .
oh  ,  stay but till then !
a sweeter and a lovellier gentleman ,  framed in the prodigality of nature ,  young ,  valiant ,  wise ,  and ,  no doubt ,  right royal ,  the spacious world cannot again afford .
seeing the apparel] o king stephano !
nay ,  that’s true ,  that’s very true .
servant-monster?
i will do so .
i here take my oath before this honorable assembly ,  she kicked the poor king her father .
hast thou slain tybalt ?
pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing to what i shall unfold.
but did you think the prince would have served you thus ?
i am boy to them all three ,  but all they three ,  though they would serve me ,  could not be man to me .
in christening ,  shalt thou have two god - fathers; had i been judge ,  thou shouldst have had ten more ,  to bring thee to the gallows ,  not the font .
to ireland ,  i; our separated fortune shall keep us both the safer .
in sicyon .
i would lose all—ay ,  sacrifice them all here to this devil—to deliver you .
so i hope, i was not born to die on brutus' sword.
i'll be an auditor; an actor too perhaps ,  if i see cause .
thou runaway ,  thou coward ,  art thou fled ?
within the bond of marriage ,  tell me ,  brutus ,  is it excepted i should know no secrets that appertain to you ?
why, the wrong is but a wrong i' the world; and hav- ing the world for your labor, 'tis a wrong in your own world, and you might quickly make it right.
the one of them imports the death of cassio to be undertook by roderigo.
there, take it, prince, and if my form lie there, then i am yours.
my resolution’s placed ,  and i have nothing of woman in me .
peter ,  didst ever see the like ?
ay ,  now am i in arden ,  the more fool i .
it is here, hamlet.
name what part i am for and proceed .
so every bondman in his own hand bears the power to cancel his captivity .
thus do i ever make my fool my purse; for i mine own gain'd knowledge should profane, if i would time expend with such a snipe but for my sport and profit.
wilt thou lay hands on me ,  villain ?
sir ,  you speak nobly .
some holy angel fly to the court of england and unfold his message ere he come, that a swift blessing may soon return to this our suffering country under a hand accursed!
he went hence but now ,  and certainly in strange unquietness .
in the way of argument ,  look you ,  and friendly communication ,  partly to satisfy my opinion ,  and partly for the satisfaction ,  look you ,  of my mind ,  as touching the direction of the military discipline ,  that is the point .
you'd be king o's the isle, sirrah?
thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight.
she confesses it .
strike his wife ?
then edgar was abused .
well . — now come ,  my ariel !
sir ,  mark antony will e’en but kiss octavia ,  and we’ll follow .
waking] and run through fire i will for thy sweet sake .
oh ,  let me see thee walk !
i do beseech your lordship ,  call her back .
i will be near to second your attempt ,  and he shall fall between us .
both one and other he denies me now .
romeo .
witness this army, of such mass and charge, led by a delicate and tender prince, whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd, makes mouths at the invisible event, exposing what is mortal and unsure to all that fortune, death, and danger dare, even for an eggshell.
there’s part of a power already footed .
go to the pulpit ,  brutus .
sit down and rest.
early tomorrow will we rise and hence .
i pray you ,  give me leave .
say ,  how is that ?
seest thou here ,  this is the mouth o' th' cell .
ride, ride, messala, ride, and give these bills unto the legions on the other side.
i'll teach you how to flow.
arm'd ,  say you ?
you must play pyramus . —and flute ,  you thisbe .
these good fellows will bring thee where i am.
there's fennel for you, and columbines.
look to the queen there, ho!
about !
alack ,  my child is dead ,  and with my child my joys are buried !
you hear him all night .
that ,  sir ,  which i will not report after her .
what's the matter?
it did bass my trespass .
is there any cause in nature that makes these hard hearts ?
in private ?
you touched my vein at first .
hold ,  sir ,  here’s my purse .
pray you ,  be careful .
i'll be with thee betimes .
what, ho, brabantio!
i have an exposition of sleep come upon me .
your mother .
since he went into france ,  i have been in continual practice .
hear'st thou of them?
faith ,  i must; she'll rail i' the street else .
this avarice sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been the sword of our slain kings.
how now?
oh ,  it is monstrous ,  monstrous .
and now methinks i have a mind to it .
what sum owes he the jew ?
my ever gentle cousin, welcome hither.
o wretched villain!
what not put upon his spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt of our great quell?
go seek him out; speak fair ,  and bring the body into the chapel .
his coward lips did from their color fly ,  and that same eye whose bend doth awe the world did lose his luster .
what is thisbe?
i’ll bring thee word straight how ’tis like to go .
gave it a judge's clerk!—no, god's my judge!
i pray you haste in this.
ask for me tomorrow ,  and you shall find me a grave man .
o nuncle ,  court holy water in a dry house is better than this rainwater out o' door .
lucius ! —fast asleep ?
rapier and dagger.
nothing ,  my lord .
nay, had she been true, if heaven would make me such another world of one entire and perfect chrysolite, i'ld not have sold her for it.
not romeo ,  prince; he was mercutio's friend; his fault concludes but what the law should end ,  the life of tybalt .
wash they his wounds with tears?
why look you pale ?
but ,  like the owner of a foul disease ,  to keep it from divulging ,  let it feed even on the pith of life .
tybalt ,  my cousin !
i embrace it freely, and will this brother's wager frankly play.— give us the foils.
moreover ,  urge his hateful luxury and bestial appetite in change of lust ,  which stretched to their servants ,  daughters ,  wives ,  even where his raging eye or savage heart ,  without control ,  lusted to make his prey .
all are punish'd .
it is my lady mother.
sir, for your hurts, myself will be your surgeon.
moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel moor; so come my soul to bliss, as i speak true; so speaking as i think, i die, i die.
drown'd !
death of thy soul!
if he be perjured ,  see you now ,  his reputation is as arrant a villain and a jack sauce as ever his black shoe trod upon god’s ground and his earth ,  in my conscience ,  la .
remember march ,  the ides of march remember .
nay ,  their endeavor keeps in the wonted pace .
i cannot make you what amends i would; therefore accept such kindness as i can .
he seeks my life .
for first was he contract to lady lucy— your mother lives a witness to that vow— and afterward by substitute betrothed to bona ,  sister to the king of france .
well this was signor benedick that said so .
cassius, be constant.
give me thy hand ,  and let me see thee in thy woman’s weeds .
no ,  no ,  they would not .
tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit; for i am sick when i do look on thee.
mercy on us!’—‘we split, we split!’—‘farewell, my wife and children!’—‘farewell, brother!’—‘we split, we split, we split!’ let's all sink wi'th’ king.
that shows thou art unconfirmed .
liar and slave !
let lucius and titinius guard our door .
varrus and claudio !
dost thou mock me ?
wilt thou know th' effect of what i wrote ?
help, help, help!
what is thy name ?
i'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye, 'tis but the pale reflex of cynthia's brow; nor that is not the lark whose notes do beat the vaulty heaven so high above our heads.
o, woe is me, to have seen what i have seen, see what i see!
i will die ,  and leave him all .
portia, go in awhile, and by and by thy bosom shall partake the secrets of my heart.
why thou ,  loss upon loss !
give me particulars .
i will hear further reason for this .
no more dams i'll make for fish nor fetch in firing at requiring, nor scrape trenchering, nor wash dish ’ban, ’ban, cacaliban has a new master—get a new man!
o iago ,  the pity of it ,  iago !
then stand with us.
do it ,  england ,  for like the hectic in my blood he rages ,  and thou must cure me .
hast thou forgot the foul witch sycorax, who with age and envy was grown into a hoop?
flatterers ? —now ,  brutus ,  thank yourself .
what he will do with it heaven knows, not i; i nothing but to please his fantasy.
whip me such honest knaves .
as i remember, this should be the house.
good hermia ,  do not be so bitter with me .
buzz ,  buzz !
saw you the weird sisters?
i'll call upon you straight.
yet if you there did practice on my state ,  your being in egypt might be my question .
boy !
why dost thou spit at me ?
age, thou art shamed!
it is meat and drink to me to see a clown .
my lord ?
why ,  what i' devil’s name ,  tailor ,  call’st thou this ?
do not so .
come on then, let's to bed.
then ,  you conclude ,  my grandam ,  he is dead .
i prithee take the cork out of thy mouth ,  that i may drink thy tidings .
mercutio ,  thou consortest with romeo .
i never spake with her in all my life .
no ,  my good lord .
here is more of us !
past the mid season .
justice ,  find the girl !
they have all stomachs .
i am very sorry that you are not well .
what have you done ?
fetch us in fuel ,  and be quick ,  thou'rt best ,  to answer other business . —shrug'st thou ,  malice ?
that you do think you are not what you are .
did he receive you well ?
but i’ll not chide thee .
i will not fail.
not yet old enough for a man ,  nor young enough for a boy ,  as a squash is before ’tis a peascod ,  or a codling when ’tis almost an apple .
all is confirm'd ,  my lord ,  which was reported .
why ,  how now ,  ho !
do you see yonder cloud that’s almost in shape of a camel ?
what news ?
stir not until the signal .
dispatch . —enobarbus !
let us hear what antony can say .
i am aweary of this moon.
o all you host of heaven !
bounteous madam ,  whatever shall become of michael cassio ,  he's never anything but your true servant .
god be at your table !
why ,  you were with him ,  were you not ?
you are keen ,  my lord ,  you are keen .
i cannot speak enough of this content .
welcome to cyprus .
heard you this ,  gonzalo ?
macbeth ! — had i three ears ,  i’d hear thee .
set me the stoups of wine upon that table .
take them away .
no ,  i protest ,  i know not the contents .
o mighty caesar !
my wind, cooling my broth, would blow me to an ague, when i thought what harm a wind too great might do at sea.
hence!
she give it cassio ?
and for an earnest of a greater honor ,  he bade me ,  from him ,  call thee thane of cawdor .
you mock me, sir.
shall i go win my daughter to thy will ?
now ,  banished kent ,  if thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemned ,  so may it come thy master ,  whom thou lovest ,  shall find thee full of labors .
indeed !
and for my means, i'll husband them so well, they shall go far with little.
desist ,  and drink .
is this the noble moor whom our full senate call all in all sufficient?
i must fetch his necessaries ashore.
hum !
he hath .
it cannot be .
what early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
is it possible dat i sould love de enemy of france ?
mine eyes are made the fools o’ the other senses, or else worth all the rest.
why, then the polack never will defend it.
observe him ,  for the love of mockery ,  for i know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of him .
not i ,  believe me .
at this same ancient feast of capulet’s sups the fair rosaline whom thou so loves with all the admired beauties of verona .
why, saw you anything more wonderful?
help ,  ho !
here ,  my good lord .
as thick as tale can post with post ,  and every one did bear thy praises in his kingdom’s great defense ,  and poured them down before him .
o churl!
lord ,  let me never have a cause to sigh ,  till i be brought to such a silly pass !
do not desire to see this letter .
shall caesar send a lie ?
o child !
my master will be here ere morning .
good night ,  good night !
hide fox ,  and all after .
this day i breathed first .
do so: to ebb hereditary sloth instructs me.
i am fear'd in field and town.
what might import my sister’s letter to him ?
full oft ’tis seen ,  our means secure us and our mere defects prove our commodities .
i'll have some proof.
it is enacted in the laws of venice,— if it be proved against an alien that by direct or indirect attempts he seek the life of any citizen, the party 'gainst the which he doth contrive, shall seize one half his goods; the other half comes to the privy coffer of the state; and the offender's life lies in the mercy of the duke only, 'gainst all other voice.
we are spoiled and yonder he is !
pyramus draws near the wall; silence.
open your gates .
thy thoughts i cleave to .
well ,  but to my choice: who chooseth me ,  shall get as much as he deserves .
well, i conceive.
but for my daughter katherine ,  this i know ,  she is not for your turn ,  the more my grief .
i will hence to - night .
i pray thee ,  sing ,  and let me woo no more .
i will look further into ’t .
i’ll make her come ,  i warrant you ,  presently .
shall we sound him?
he scrape a trencher !
doth thy other mouth call me ?
but hollow men ,  like horses hot at hand ,  make gallant show and promise of their mettle .
that sir which serves and seeks for gain ,   and follows but for form ,   will pack when it begins to rain  and leave thee in the storm .
you are gentlemen of brave mettle; you would lift the moon out of her sphere ,  if she would continue in it five weeks without changing .
well, again!
you are but now cast in his mood ,  a punishment more in policy than in malice; even so as one would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion .
o antony, beg not your death of us!
thy brother by decree is banished .
my good friends ,  hark !
i had no judgment when to her i swore.
let still the woman take an elder than herself .
tis true ,  most worthy signior .
is it within reason and compass ?
when they are in great danger ,  i recover them .
there's wood enough within .
tis with cares .
i will dry-beat you with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger.
welcome, then.
where is my mother?
go to ,  they are not men o' their words .
o banquo ,  banquo ,  our royal master’s murdered !
i am a soldier ,  i ,  older in practice ,  abler than yourself to make conditions .
ay, every man away.
the crows and choughs that wing the midway air show scarce so gross as beetles .
foul whisperings are abroad.
my fingers itch.
who's there ?
will you stay a while ?
never anger made good guard for itself .
how oddly thou reply'st !
reads] sweet bassanio, my ships have all reads] miscarried, my creditors grow cruel, my estate is very low, my bond to the jew is forfeit; and since, in paying it, it is impossible i should live, all debts are cleared between you and i, if i might but see you at my death; notwithstanding, use your pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter.
well ,  here’s my comfort .
the carriages, sir, are the hangers.
then ,  is there the county palatine .
well ,  think of marriage now .
come ,  bird ,  come .
for he partly begs to be desired to give .
did cicero say anything ?
fear not my government.
if we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you in that.
passion, i see, is catching, for mine eyes, seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine, began to water.
better cheer may you have ,  but not with better heart .
i can tell thee where that saying was born ,  of  “ i fear no colors .  ”   where ,  good mistress mary ?
to whom do you speak this ?
thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
need you my help ?
i pray you ,  sir ,  dispatch .
the king ,  sir ,  hath wagered with him six barbary horses ,  against the which he has impawned ,  as i take it ,  six french rapiers and poniards with their assigns—as girdle ,  hangers ,  and so .
if thou dost ,  i shall never love thee after .
fie on't !
oh ,  think’st thou we shall ever meet again ?
canidius ,  our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land ,  and our twelve thousand horse .
the poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree, sing all a green willow; her hand on her bosom, her head on her knee, sing willow, willow, willow.
so ,  so .
ay ,  ’twas he that told me on her first .
there is a fat friend at your master’s house that kitchened me for you today at dinner .
was't hamlet wrong'd laertes?
tybalt would kill thee ,  but thou slew’st tybalt—there art thou happy .
a knave teach me my duty !
abide me, if thou darest; for well i wot thou runnest before me, shifting every place, and darest not stand, nor look me in the face.
twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew dangerous conjectures in ill - breeding minds .
some two months hence up higher toward the north he first presents his fire ,  and the high east stands as the capitol ,  directly here .
he that plays the king shall be welcome .
but indeed, sir, we make holiday, to see caesar and to rejoice in his triumph.
shall i be frighted when a madman stares ?
she lives .
they murder caesar !  ” —who’s within ?
well ,  my lord .
what wound did ever heal but by degrees ?
i gave you all— and in good time you gave it .
go thou to juliet ,  help to deck up her .
mobled queen’ is good .
go seek him there .
but swords i smile at, weapons laugh to scorn, brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.
corinth first .
no more .
but ,  sith i am entered in this cause so far ,  pricked to ’t by foolish honesty and love ,  i will go on .
therein the patient must minister to himself .
sirrah, give place.
ay ,  and for that thou diest .
these fellows have some soul, and such a one do i profess myself.
marry, patience, or i shall say you are all in all in spleen, and nothing of a man.
o ,  never shall sun that morrow see !
give me a taper !
i grant indeed it hath not appeared ,  and your suspicion is not without wit and judgement .
peace there !
there’s hope in ’t yet .
hath cassius lived to be but mirth and laughter to his brutus, when grief and blood ill-temper'd vexeth him?
this was the noblest roman of them all .
look ,  here comes helena .
pardon ,  master .
you pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me?
for youth is bought more oft than begged or borrow’d .
how fares my juliet?
i’ll come to thee straight .
are there masques?
ay, for the state; not for antonio.
are you of good or evil ?
o ,  then be bold to say bassanio’s dead !
love looks not with the eyes but with the mind .
i should make very forges of my cheeks, that would to cinders burn up modesty, did i but speak thy deeds.
my charms i'll break ,  their senses i'll restore ,  and they shall be themselves .
it is almost morning ,  and yet i am sure you are not satisfied of these events at full .
the shame itself doth speak for instant remedy .
ah ,  mine own lord ,  what have i seen tonight !
o heavens !
i humbly thank you ,  sir .
a good epithet !
help ,  ho !
dispersedly] bow-wow!
good news ,  good news !
thou poisonous slave ,  got by the devil himself upon thy wicked dam ,  come forth !
let the trumpet sound .
let him command, and to obey shall be in me remorse, what bloody business ever.
aboard ,  aboard ,  for shame !
he is not yet arrived; nor know i aught but that he's well and will be shortly here.
away !
where art thou ?
and cross - gartered ?
flute, the bellows-mender!
no ,  pompey ,  i have kept me from the cup .
fear comes upon me .
give you good night.
how cam'st thou to be the siege of this moon-calf?
o, relation too nice, and yet too true!
we judge no less . —uncle of exeter ,  enlarge the man committed yesterday that railed against our person .
but dead they are ,  and devilish slave ,  by thee .
prithee ,  how many boys and wenches must i have ?
swear by your double self ,  and there’s an oath of credit !
thou troublest me; i am not in the vein .
ah ,  where’s my man ? —give me some aqua vitae . — these griefs ,  these woes ,  these sorrows make me old .
let a beast be lord of beasts ,  and his crib shall stand at the king's mess .
a baubling vessel was he captain of ,  for shallow draught and bulk unprizable ,  with which such scathful grapple did he make with the most noble bottom of our fleet ,  that very envy and the tongue of loss cried fame and honor on him . —what’s the matter ?
moody ?
alas ,  poor shepherd ,  searching of thy wound ,  i have by hard adventure found mine own .
i will not trust you ,  i; nor longer stay in your curst company .
but what talk i of this ?
that’s two of his weapons .
in bed asleep while they do dream things true .
our sport shall be to take what they mistake; and what poor duty cannot do, noble respect takes it in might, not merit.
o ,  she is lame !
better macbeth than such an one to reign .
where are these hearts?
think of it.
i pray thee ,  hold thy peace .
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder .
and i like helen ,  till the fates me kill .
four legs and two voices—a most delicate monster!
i am bound to your niece ,  sir .
his bark is stoutly timber'd, and his pilot of very expert and approved allowance; therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death, stand in bold cure.
where are his eyes ?
o heaven!
the point envenomed too ! —then ,  venom ,  to thy work .
how will you live?
why, by making him uncapable of othello's place; knocking out his brains.
such men as he be never at heart's ease whiles they behold a greater than themselves, and therefore are they very dangerous.
accursed ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day !
i am content .
and then he offered it the third time; he put it the third time by; and still as he refused it, the rabblement hooted and clapped their chopped hands and threw up their sweaty nightcaps and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because caesar refused the crown, that it had almost choked caesar, for he swounded and fell down at it.
you have seen nothing then ?
seyton ,  send out .
thine ,  claudio ,  thine ,  i say .
give us a light there, ho!
added to these ,  of knights ,  esquires ,  and gallant gentlemen ,  eight thousand and four hundred ,  of the which ,  five hundred were but yesterday dubbed knights .
do not swear at all; or if thou wilt ,  swear by thy gracious self ,  which is the god of my idolatry ,  and i'll believe thee .
i must be gone and live, or stay and die.
we have lost best half of our affair.
did romeo's hand shed tybalt's blood ?
for he loves to hear that unicorns may be betrayed with trees ,  and bears with glasses ,  elephants with holes ,  lions with toils ,  and men with flatterers .
a daughter ?
what ?
tis much he dares ,  and ,  to that dauntless temper of his mind ,  he hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor to act in safety .
take thee that too .
but i have heard him oft maintain it to be fit that ,  sons at perfect age and fathers declined ,  the father should be as ward to the son ,  and the son manage his revenue .
if you shall send them word you will not come ,  their minds may change .
breaks my pate across ?
your plainness and your shortness please me well .
on the ground !
here, here will i remain with worms that are thy chambermaids.
i think it lacks of twelve .
cassio hath here been set on in the dark by roderigo and fellows that are ’scaped .
i think ,  i'faith ,  she loves me .
you mistake ,  sir .
if thou keep promise, i shall end this strife; become a christian, and thy loving wife.
a most high miracle.
gentles, perchance you wonder at this show; but wonder on, till truth make all things plain.
ay, more.
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead; and paris too.
i think we are too bold upon your rest.
by no means ”  what ?
pox ,  leave thy damnable faces ,  and begin !
away !
away!
where should i lose that handkerchief ,  emilia ?
why ,  he had none .
and so it is .
now art thou sociable, now art thou romeo; now art thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature.
he is not yet arrived .
trouble us not.
my name is roderigo .
fare you well ,  my liege .
was this ambition ?
tomorrow we'll hear ourselves again.
with all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
caesar should be a beast without a heart if he should stay at home today for fear .
this to your majesty; this to the queen .
thunder] [thunder] alas, the storm is come again!
is he gone and hath nothing ?
nor i.
o, kiss me through the hole of this vile wall.
the town is empty; on the brow o' the sea stand ranks of people, and they cry, “a sail!” my hopes do shape him for the governor.
yet tell me not ,  for i have heard it all .
their residence ,  both in reputation and profit ,  was better both ways .
for se offendendo; it cannot be else .
portia ,  adieu .
farewell .
by this hand ,  i say 'tis very scurvy ,  and begin to find myself fopped in it .
the man grows mad .
must i give way and room to your rash choler?
for mine own good all causes shall give way .
behold where stands the usurper's cursed head.
most potent ,  grave ,  and reverend signiors ,  my very noble and approved good masters ,  that i have ta'en away this old man's daughter ,  it is most true; true ,  i have married her; the very head and front of my offending hath this extent ,  no more .
i jest to oberon, and make him smile, when i a fat and bean-fed horse beguile, neighing in likeness of a filly foal; and sometime lurk i in a gossip's bowl in very likeness of a roasted crab, and, when she drinks, against her lips i bob, and on her withered dewlap pour the ale.
i will not fail .
how is it with you, my most fair bianca?
romeo !
what warlike noise is this?
help !
i know not .
happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old man is twice a child.
know we this face or no?
i will be proud ,  i will read politic authors ,  i will baffle sir toby ,  i will wash off gross acquaintance ,  i will be point -  devise the very man .
you may be rightly just ,  whatever i shall think .
o pyramus, arise, speak, speak.
the words expressly are  “ a pound of flesh .  ”  take then thy bond ,  take thou thy pound of flesh ,  but in the cutting it if thou dost shed one drop of christian blood ,  thy lands and goods are by the laws of venice confiscate unto the state of venice .
fie !
well, death's the end of all.
it must be se offendendo; it cannot be else.
mark well metellus cimber .
what should i say ,  sweet lady ?
i stand on sudden haste .
give me ,  ”  quoth i .
for what ,  i pray thee ?
even so lies she ,  blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering .
what wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst praise me?
who calls?
pray ,  chuck ,  come hither .
tis a quick lie ,  sir; 'twill away again from me to you .
fair ladies, you drop manna in the way of starved people.
i married them; and their stol'n marriage day was tybalt's doomsday ,  whose untimely death banish'd the new - made bridegroom from this city; for whom ,  and not for tybalt ,  juliet pin'd .
kate like the hazel - twig is straight and slender and as brown in hue as hazel nuts ,  and sweeter than the kernels .
but ,  sir ,  i will deliver his challenge by word of mouth ,  set upon aguecheek a notable report of valor ,  and drive the gentleman (as i know his youth will aptly receive it) into a most hideous opinion of his rage ,  skill ,  fury ,  and impetuosity .
for all the rest ,  they’ll take suggestion as a cat laps milk .
happily he’s the second time come to them ,  for they say an old man is twice a child .
how fearful and dizzy ’tis to cast one’s eyes so low !
shall i believe that unsubstantial death is amorous ,  and that the lean abhorrèd monster keeps thee here in dark to be his paramour ?
did i say “better”?
the wager thou hast won ,  and i will add unto their losses twenty thousand crowns ,  another dowry to another daughter ,  for she is changed as she had never been .
well ,  susan is with god; she was too good for me .
yet you have all the vantage of her wrong .
very well ,  ”   “ go to ”  !
o heavens!
and they have conspired together , —i will not say ,  you shall see a masque; but if you do ,  then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a - bleeding on black -  monday last ,  at six o'clock i' the morning ,  falling out that year on ash - wednesday was four year in the afternoon .
i marvel cambio comes not all this while .
for the which ,  as i told you ,  antonio shall be bound .
let but the commons hear this testament— which ,  pardon me ,  i do not mean to read— and they would go and kiss dead caesar’s wounds and dip their napkins in his sacred blood ,  yea ,  beg a hair of him for memory ,  and ,  dying ,  mention it within their wills ,  bequeathing it as a rich legacy unto their issue .
content with hermia!
what we will do ,  we do upon command .
good day to both of you .
my gorge rises at it.
norfolk ,  we must have knocks ,  ha ,  must we not ?
sit down a while and let us once again assail your ears ,  that are so fortified against our story ,  what we have two nights seen .
what wilt thou do for her ?
madam ,  his majesty doth call for you , — and for your grace ,  —and yours ,  my gracious lords .
well .
why ,  belman is as good as he ,  my lord .
sir ,  here’s the door .
why ,  it stood by her .
thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
old i do wax ,  and from my weary limbs honor is cudgeled .
out, dog!
a sibyl ,  that had numbered in the world the sun to course two hundred compasses ,  in her prophetic fury sewed the work .
shall i go fetch your nightgown ?
killing swine .
macbeth !
banquo and donalbain !
one of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey .
caius ligarius doth bear caesar hard, who rated him for speaking well of pompey.
calphurnia !
tis he.
what ,  are there masques ?
i remember him well; and i remember him worthy of thy praise.
get thee to a nunnery .
that which i gave you .
if this had not been a gentlewoman ,  she should have been buried out o' christian burial .
coragio, bully- monster, coragio!
by the lord, horatio, this three years i have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe.
come ,  grey .
what ,  is he dead ?
knock you here ,  sir ?
proud can i never be of what i hate, but thankful even for hate that is meant love.
last night she slept not ,  nor tonight she shall not .
if they make you not then the better answer ,  you may say they are not the men you took them for .
in such a night ,  did pretty jessica ,  like a little shrew ,  slander her love ,  and he forgave it her .
speak your office .
is not this true?
therefore wast thou deservedly confined into this rock ,  who hadst deserved more than a prison .
i’ll help you to a horse .
it beats as it would fall in twenty pieces .
why dost thou ask ?
are we all ready ?
give me some wine ,  fill full .
proceed ,  moon .
and you too ,  sir .
happy indeed ,  as we have spent the day .
what are these so wither'd, and so wild in their attire, that look not like the inhabitants o’ the earth, and yet are on't?
last night of all ,  when yond same star that's westward from the pole had made his course to illume that part of heaven where now it burns ,  marcellus and myself ,  the bell then beating one— peace !
good words are better than bad strokes ,  octavius .
i would i had your bond ,  for i perceive a weak bond holds you .
peace, and be still!
and for cassio ,  let me be his undertaker .
why ,  you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman ,  for i cannot see how sleeping should offend .
tarry ,  rash wanton; am not i thy lord ?
o ,  be gone !
it must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
and sayest thou yet that exile is not death ?
no ,  by no means .
nothing that is so is so .
i have sent for these strawberries .
thou shalt be loggerhead . good faith , 'tis day .
now ,  by saint george ,  i am too young for you .
god bless thee ,  and put meekness in thy breast ,  love ,  charity ,  obedience ,  and true duty .
of a snail ?
they are in the very wrath of love ,  and they will together .
thy mantle good ,  what !
ready to go, but never to return.
have you your father's leave?
my noble girls !
my life were better ended by their hate than death prorogued ,  wanting of thy love .
some light - foot friend post to the duke of norfolk— ratcliffe ,  thyself ,  or catesby .
i say ,  by sorcery he got this isle .
but art thou not drowned, stephano?
now to my mother!
stand fast together ,  lest some friend of caesar's should chance— talk not of standing .
then i defy you ,  stars !
i mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
peace !
let them set on at once ,  for i perceive but cold demeanor in octavius' wing ,  and sudden push gives them the overthrow .
but my muse labors, and thus she is deliver'd.
o julius caesar ,  thou art mighty yet !
i'll bring you to him.
nor our strong sorrow [aside to donalbain.
we doubt not now but every rub is smoothèd on our way .
prithee ,  listen well .
methought i was enamour'd of an ass .
what's the matter?
hast thou found my daughter ?
an inviting eye ,  and yet methinks right modest .
we'll to church to-morrow.
but ,  as i can learn ,  he hearkens after prophecies and dreams ,  and from the crossrow plucks the letter  and says a wizard told him that by  “ g ”  his issue disinherited should be .
let him alone .
good volumnius ,  thou know’st that we two went to school together .
a wandering knight?
speak but one rhyme ,  and i am satisfied .
no, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
what think you of this fool ,  malvolio ?
two deep enemies ,  foes to my rest ,  and my sweet sleep’s disturbers ,  are they that i would have thee deal upon .
sir ,  sir ,  be patient .
do i look like a cudgel, or a hovel-post, a staff, or a prop?
my father's spirit in arms!
truly ,  sir ,  the better for my foes and the worse for my friends .
now is the mural down between the two neighbors.
how ,  in stripping it ,  you more invest it !
my pulse as yours doth temperately keep time and makes as healthful music.
sir ,  shall i to this lady ?
the rest march on with me .
if haply you my father do suspect an instrument of this your calling back, lay not your blame on me.
farewell .
thou dost snore distinctly; there's meaning in thy snores.
we shall be much unfurnish'd for this time.
i know it well ,  sir .
ah ,  sirrah ,  this unlook'd - for sport comes well .
well ,  peace be with you !
what ,  mistress !
go ,  write it in a martial hand .
gold ,  silver ,  and base lead .
dost thou love me ?
proceed, moon.
what is't, laertes?
what complexion is she of ?
o cassio ,  whence came this ?
such a one am i to fear ,  or none .
i am your neighbor ,  and was suitor first .
one scene of it comes near the circumstance ,  which i have told thee ,  of my father's death .
good night, good doctor.
amen to that ,  sweet powers !
o sir ,  you are old .
signor benedick !
the  i thank you .
the heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes .
yes, better, sir.
the more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends .
i drunk !
well, i'll set you forth.
twere good you let him know; for who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise, would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib such dear concernings hide?
still better, and worse.
with mine officer !
come, come; you'll never meet a more sufficient man.
unequal match'd ,  pyrrhus at priam drives ,  in rage strikes wide; but with the whiff and wind of his fell sword the unnerved father falls .
my words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
what are you there?
here is the will, and under caesar's seal.
good troth ,  you do me wrong ,  good sooth ,  you do ,  in such disdainful manner me to woo .
hark !
first let me talk with this philosopher . —
give to a gracious message an host of tongues ,  but let ill tidings tell themselves when they be felt .
if thou didst ever hold me in thy heart ,  absent thee from felicity awhile ,  and in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain ,  to tell my story .
some dear friend dead ,  else nothing in the world could turn so much the constitution of any constant man .
but you, o you, so perfect and so peerless, are created of every creature's best!
you shall confess that you are both deceived .
let's see for means .
shall i say to caesar what you require of him ?
i am changed .
go tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return .
i say ,  o caesar ,  antony is dead .
what in your own part can you say to this ?
thy master and his man are here ,  and that is false thou dost report to us .
o my dear cassio, my sweet cassio!
and lovers' absent hours more tedious than the dial eightscore times !
had i as many eyes as thou hast wounds, weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood, it would become me better than to close in terms of friendship with thine enemies.
where he arrives he moves all hearts against us .
what is this ?
o wife ,  look how our daughter bleeds !
you are too much mistaken in this king .
come, i'll go in with you.
is execution done on cawdor ?
i'll be your foil ,  laertes .
a most high miracle .
such an exploit have i in hand ,  ligarius ,  had you a healthful ear to hear of it .
but shall i live in hope ?
ay, i do.
the same .
does it not ,  think thee ,  stand me now upon— he that hath kill'd my king ,  and whored my mother; popp'd in between the election and my hopes; thrown out his angle for my proper life ,  and with such cozenage—is't not perfect conscience to quit him with this arm ?
looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled ?
had it th' ability of life to thank you .
lorenzo ,  i commit into your hands the husbandry and manage of my house until my lord’s return .
to alonso] it is foul weather in us all ,  good sir ,  [to alonso] it is foul weather in us all ,  good sir ,  when you are cloudy .
tis but a peevish boy—yet he talks well— but what care i for words ?
by heaven ,  i love thee better than myself ,  for i come hither arm'd against myself .
death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail, ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.
then i'll be brief .
we’ll burn the house of brutus .
bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud; else would i tear the cave where echo lies ,  and make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine with repetition of my romeo's name .
he is defiled that draws a sword on thee .
that’s not so .
bring him away .
there thou speak’st reason .
say i ,  her sovereign ,  am her subject low .
what is the matter ,  ho ?
o, yes, and soundless too, for you have stol'n their buzzing, antony, and very wisely threat before you sting.
the limit of your lives is out .
counterfeit ,  i assure you .
it shall do well .
still as the grave.
this is trebonius.
what's the matter now?
to his good friends thus wide i'll ope my arms and ,  like the kind life - rendering pelican ,  repast them with my blood .
i would not hear your enemy say so ,  nor shall you do mine ear that violence ,  to make it truster of your own report against yourself .
why, then is my pump well-flower'd.
nay ,  if our wits run the wild - goose chase ,  i am done; for thou hast more of the wild goose in one of thy wits than ,  i am sure ,  i have in my whole five .
and how was that ta'en up ?
thou thinkest i am in sport .
my words would bandy her to my sweet love ,  and his to me .
i think not of them .
and speak parrot ?
and i do believe your majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek upon saint tavy’s day .
ay ,  every man away .
i know he would not be a wolf but that he sees the romans are but sheep .
your case is better .
i have done the deed .
she is low - voiced .
he did ask favor .
fine, i' faith!
i long to hear the story of your life, which must take the ear strangely.
i warrant you ,  sir; the white cold virgin snow upon my heart abates the ardour of my liver .
what say'st thou ,  my dear nurse ?
famine is in thy cheeks .
and ,  gentle master ,  i received no gold .
well ,  i cannot tell .
and let those that play your clowns speak no more than is set down for them ,  for there be of them that will themselves laugh to set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh too ,  though in the meantime some necessary question of the play be then to be considered .
tell him myself ,  the mayor ,  and aldermen ,  no less importing than our general good ,  in deep designs ,  and matters of great moment are come to have some conference with his grace .
ay ,  my good lord .
that can i; at least the whisper goes so .
after her, after her.
patience awhile, good cassio.
no ,  sir ,  there are moe with him .
i dare abide no longer .
there's no trust ,  no faith ,  no honesty in men; all perjur'd ,  all forsworn ,  all naught ,  all dissemblers .
awakening] what angel wakes me from my flowery bed?
o tybalt ,  tybalt ,  the best friend i had !
is that true ?
fie ,  you slug - abed !
think'st thou i'ld make a life of jealousy ,  to follow still the changes of the moon with fresh suspicions ?
i promise you, but for your company, i would have been abed an hour ago.
hear a little further, and then i'll bring thee to the present business which now's upon's; without the which this story were most impertinent.
because i would not see thy cruèl nails pluck out his poor old eyes ,  nor thy fierce sister in his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs .
how dost thou, guildenstern?
come ,  bid me do anything for thee .
anon he finds him, striking too short at greeks.
oh ,  monstrous !
therefore to our best mercy give yourselves or ,  like to men proud of destruction ,  defy us to our worst .
pronounce.
i'll not be forsworn .
this is more strange than such a murder is.
i grant i am a woman ,  but withal a woman that lord brutus took to wife .
thou baggage ,  let me in .
good morrow ,  catesby .
i know his eye doth homage otherwhere ,  or else what lets it but he would be here ?
the one i’ll stay ,  the other stayeth me .
i shall grow jealous of you shortly, launcelot, if you thus get my wife into corners.
where should we have our thanks?
take heed o' th' foul fiend .
this is called  “ the countercheck quarrelsome ,  ”  and so to  “ the lie circumstantial ”  and  “ the lie direct .  ”   and how oft did you say his beard was not well cut ?
my lord ,  my lord ,  i’ll prove it on his body if he dare ,  despite his nice fence and his active practice ,  his may of youth and bloom of lustihood .
i did not see him since .
i am glad of it, for now i shall have reason to show the love and duty that i bear you with franker spirit.
get thee to bed ,  francisco .
there ,  diomed ,  there .
why ,  this fellow has banished two on ’s daughters ,  and did the third a blessing against his will .
what follows then, my lord?
good friend ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ say the firm roman to great egypt sends this treasure of an oyster ,  at whose foot ,  to mend the petty present ,  i will piece her opulent throne with kingdoms .
something too much of this.
how now ,  you secret ,  black ,  and midnight hags ?
tell me ,  daughter juliet ,  how stands your disposition to be married ?
well ,  you are to call at all the alehouses and bid those that are drunk get them to bed .
come ,  musicians ,  play .
can you remember any of the principal evils that he laid to the charge of women ?
thy substance ,  valued at the highest rate ,  cannot amount unto a hundred marks; therefore by law thou art condemned to die .
to tell thee thou shalt see me at philippi .
seek him ,  titinius ,  whilst i go to meet the noble brutus ,  thrusting this report into his ears .
is the day so young ?
before my body i throw my warlike shield!
wherein went he ?
heartily farewell.
indeed ,  they say the senators tomorrow mean to establish caesar as a king ,  and he shall wear his crown by sea and land in every place save here in italy .
do not believe it .
but are not some whole that we must make sick?
stand close and list him .
it lies in you .
know’st thou not any whom corrupting gold will tempt unto a close exploit of death ?
and why should caesar be a tyrant then ?
drunk ?
mistake no more .
and this weak and idle theme ,  no more yielding but a dream ,  gentles ,  do not reprehend .
why ,  now you speak like a good child and a true gentleman .
ay, by heaven, my lord.
i did not think ,  sir ,  to have met you here .
i wonder none of you have thought of him .
truly ,  sir ,  in respect of a fine workman ,  i am but ,  as you would say ,  a cobbler .
why, may one ask?
this is the air - drawn dagger which you said led you to duncan .
be aidant and remediate in the good man’s distress .
return with her ?
your ear is good .
he’s no standard .
what concern they?
the evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interrèd with their bones .
i speak no treason .
he pulls trinculo out from under caliban's cloak by the legs] thou art very trinculo indeed!
how came these things to pass?
believe what?
know ,  my hearts ,  i hope well of tomorrow ,  and will lead you where rather i’ll expect victorious life than death and honor .
not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind; nor well, unless in mind: his letter there will show you his estate.
damn them then ,  if ever mortal eyes do see them bolster more than their own !
ay ,  sir .
you heard her say herself, it was not i.
oh ,  but i fear .
hold, then.
but jealous souls will not be answered so .
our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change ,  our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse ,  and all things change them to the contrary .
and buried ,  gentle tyrrel ?
do .
ay—but not yet to die !
what soldiers, whey-face?
old fashions please me best .
griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast, which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest with more of thine.
no, no!
here have i few attendants and subjects none abroad .
if this which he avouches does appear ,  there is nor flying hence nor tarrying here .
nay ,  i pray you let me go .
take what wife you will to bed ,  i will ever be your head .
the great contention of the sea and skies parted our fellowship—but, hark!
commend me to your daughter .
and cassius too .
i'll send to one in mantua, where that same banish'd runagate doth live, shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram that he shall soon keep tybalt company; and then i hope thou wilt be satisfied.
if thou consider rightly of the matter ,  caesar has had great wrong .
take comfort: he no more shall see my face; lysander and myself will fly this place.
and thus she means ,  videlicet— asleep ,  my love ?
what's the matter ?
shall i have the thought to think on this; and shall i lack the thought that such a thing ,  bechanc'd ,  would make me sad ?
i must be idle .
speak .
o gentle lady ,  do not put me to ’t ,  for i am nothing ,  if not critical .
i shall miss thee ,  but yet thou shalt have freedom . —so ,  so ,  so . — to the king’s ship ,  invisible as thou art .
thus do they ,  sir: they take the flow o’ th’ nile by certain scales i’ th’ pyramid .
that’s not so good .
methinks i see thee, now thou art below, as one dead in the bottom of a tomb.
there is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young plants with carving  “ rosalind ”  on their barks ,  hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles ,  all ,  forsooth ,  deifying the name of rosalind .
right well ,  dear madam .
and i'll still stay ,  to have thee still forget ,  forgetting any other home but this .
very vilely in the morning, when he is sober; and most vilely in the afternoon, when he is drunk: when he is best, he is a little worse than a man; and when he is worst, he is little better than a beast: and the worst fall that ever fell, i hope i shall make shift to go without him.
be not so hasty to confound my meaning .
as i descended ?
ha?
no .
ay ,  widow dido .
a messenger from the galleys .
ho ,  guildenstern !
all that i will tell you is that the duke hath dined .
but wherefore ,  villain ,  didst thou kill my cousin ?
whose do you think it was?
a peevish self - will'd harlotry it is .
when shall he come?
look ,  how she rubs her hands .
macbeth is ripe for shaking, and the powers above put on their instruments.
i mean ,  sir ,  for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him by them ,  in his meed he's unfellowed .
mutton ?
truly ,  sir ,  in respect of a fine workman ,  i am but ,  as you would say ,  a cobbler .
as sweet as balm ,  as soft as air ,  as gentle— o antony ! —nay ,  i will take thee too .
to antonio] no marrying ’mong his subjects?
where was she born ?
i took thee for thy better.
how is't ,  my soul ?
for he is sure i'th’ island .
i am none of these ,  my lord .
your son ,  my lord ,  has paid a soldier’s debt .
hear ,  nature ,  hear ,  dear goddess ,  hear !
i think withal there would be hands uplifted in my right; and here from gracious england have i offer of goodly thousands .
still harping on my daughter.
o ,  then i see that madmen have no ears .
romeo, hist!
and your reports have set the murder on .
who is it that can tell me who i am ?
the gods do this in shame of cowardice .
and time is at his period .
alas, what ignorant sin have i committed?
no ,  as i am a christian .
what does he say of brutus ?
no, as i am a man.
my lord bassanio ,  since you have found antonio ,  we two will leave you; but at dinner - time ,  i pray you have in mind where we must meet .
go comfort your cousin .
you were sent for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties have not craft enough to colour.
the will ,  the will !
good night ,  good night .
when these are gone ,  the woman will be out .
be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd ,  bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell ,  be thy intents wicked or charitable ,  thou comest in such a questionable shape that i will speak to thee .
the world's a huge thing; it is a great price for a final vice .
sleep for a week; for the next night ,  i warrant ,  the county paris hath set up his rest that you shall rest but little .
avaunt!
ay, if i know the letters and the language.
thus credulous fools are caught: and many worthy and chaste dames even thus ,  all guiltless ,  meet reproach .
and for mark antony, think not of him, for he can do no more than caesar's arm when caesar's head is off.
good night.
but while i say one prayer !
the thane of fife had a wife; where is she now?
is that the uttermost ?
the noise they make will cause demetrius to awake .
all is confirmed ,  my lord ,  which was reported .
is't possible?
nay ,  he hath but a little beard .
villain and he be many miles asunder .
murder and treason!
but remember ,  for that's my business to you ,  that you three from milan did supplant good prospero; exposed unto the sea ,  which hath requit it ,  him and his innocent child; for which foul deed ,  the powers ,  delaying ,  not forgetting ,  have incensed the seas and shores ,  yea ,  all the creatures ,  against your peace .
why do you speak so faintly?
if thou rememb'rest aught ere thou cam'st here ,  how thou cam'st here thou mayst .
no more that thane of cawdor shall deceive our bosom interest.
look you, these are the stops.
you were best go in .
i humbly thank your ladyship .
he is my prisoner ,  and you shall not have him .
was ’t not the way ?
and wakes it now ,  to look so green and pale at what it did so freely ?
one hero died defiled ,  but i do live ,  and surely as i live ,  i am a maid .
o god ,  horatio ,  what a wounded name ,  things standing thus unknown ,  shall live behind me !
this is more strange than such a murder is .
i shall the effect of this good lesson keep as watchman to my heart .
but when i came, some minute ere the time of her awaking, here untimely lay the noble paris and true romeo dead.
the object poisons sight; let it be hid.
a man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king ,  and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm .
he raised the house with loud and coward cries .
and thou must stand by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure!
tell me where is fancy bred ,  or in the heart ,  or in the head ?
break not your sleeps for that.
come ,  my dear love ,  the purchase made ,  the fruits are to ensue; that profit's yet to come 'tween me and you .
and thus it may be .
here lies your way .
all things shall be well .
shall we their fond pageant see ?
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  and a courteous ,  and a kind ,  and a handsome; and ,  i warrant ,  a virtuous—where is your mother ?
to you your father should be as a god; one that composed your beauties; yea ,  and one to whom you are but as a form in wax ,  by him imprinted ,  and within his power to leave the figure ,  or disfigure it .
he’s a traitor .
where goes cesario ?
what is it she does now ?
descend .
nine or ten times i had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs .
i did love you once.
pitiful sight!
what needs this iterance ,  woman ?
my house was at the phoenix ?
this night .
go ,  bring them in . —and take your places ,  ladies .
now .
what ,  my good lord ?
what a fearful night is this !
if a christian wrong a jew ,  what should his sufferance be by christian example ?
confusion's cure lives not in these confusions .
i will, my lord.
farewell ,  sweet lord ,  and sister .
then to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands .
our worser thoughts heavens mend .
i am a very villain else .
was he a gentleman?
it is too late .
is this a dagger which i see before me ,  the handle toward my hand ?
yet she must die ,  else she’ll betray more men .
not on thy sole ,  but on thy soul ,  harsh jew ,  thou makest thy knife keen .
be as ourself in denmark.
so thrive my soul— a thousand times good night !
fiend angelical!
what says my lord ?
o my father, i have broke your hest to say so!
i shall forget, to have thee still stand there, remembering how i love thy company.
to feed were best at home; from thence ,  the sauce to meat is ceremony; meeting were bare without it .
what touches us ourself shall be last served.
for this time i will leave you.
why, now thou diest as bravely as titinius, and mayst be honor'd, being cato's son.
thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
ay ,  by my troth ,  the case may be amended .
sport ?
cesario is your servant’s name ,  fair princess .
i am not bound to please thee with my answers.
they were villains, murderers.
will you go see the order of the course ?
i see thee still ,  and on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood ,  which was not so before .
what hast thou done?
one word more .
what o' that ?
i prithee ,  hear me speak .
i am he that is so love - shaked .
this case of that huge spirit now is cold .
here comes another troop to seek for you.
when could they say till now that talk'd of rome that her wide walls encompass'd but one man ?
my prayers ,  minx ?
sad hours seem long .
how every fool can play upon the word !
if such a one be fit to govern ,  speak .
in mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever i looked on .
my lord is dead .
they have in england a coin that bears the figure of an angel stamped in gold ,  but that’s insculped upon .
indeed ,  without an oath ,  i'll make an end on't !
i know not what you mean by that, but i am sure caesar fell down.
what tell'st thou me of robbing ?
madam ,  good hope .
but thou wouldst not think how ill all’s here about my heart .
your constancy hath left you unattended .
it falls right .
he may not ,  as unvalued persons do ,  carve for himself; for on his choice depends the safety and health of this whole state ,  and therefore must his choice be circumscribed unto the voice and yielding of that body whereof he is the head .
minion ,  your dear lies dead ,  and your unblest fate hies .
this letter he early bid me give his father ,  and threat'ned me with death ,  going in the vault ,  if i departed not and left him there .
my gentle puck, come hither.
cure her of that.
let me go, sir, or i'll knock you o'er the mazzard.
but make amends now.
a night is but small breath and little pause to answer matters of this consequence .
how came her eyes so bright ?
i cannot live out of her company .
my daughter !
what wilt thou tell her ,  nurse ?
in such a night, did thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew, and saw the lion's shadow ere himself, and ran dismay'd away.
and what other oath than honesty to honesty engaged that this shall be or we will fall for it?
my lord, my lord!
it is too late.
i pray you ,  uncle ,  give me this dagger .
the will !
everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged.
they pray; grant thou ,  lest faith turn to despair .
why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
a cry within] a plague [a cry within] a plague upon this howling !
there is no fear in him .
cassio, may you suspect who they should be that have thus mangled you?
from hence to inverness ,  and bind us further to you .
a roman.
i may say  “ thrusting ”  it ,  for piercing steel and darts envenomèd shall be as welcome to the ears of brutus as tidings of this sight .
for se offendendo; it cannot be else.
ay ,  marry ,  go ,  i say ,  and fetch him hither .
crowner’s quest law .
ay me !
how now ,  sir toby belch !
my lord ,  i will not .
till then ,  enough .
there is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet they be alone.
o inhuman dog !
they could be content to visit other places ,  and come down with fearful bravery ,  thinking by this face to fasten in our thoughts that they have courage; but 'tis not so .
ay, that way goes the game.
for she is wise ,  if i can judge of her .
and therefore as a stranger give it welcome .
stay but a little ,  i will come again .
brutus shall lead, and we will grace his heels with the most boldest and best hearts of rome.
it was as i have seen it in his life, a sable silvered.
set you down this; and say besides ,  that in aleppo once ,  where a malignant and a turban'd turk beat a venetian and traduced the state ,  i took by the throat the circumcised dog and smote him ,  thus .
he’s a conspirator .
no more .
his lecture will be done ere you have tuned .
but fare you well .
when these prodigies do so conjointly meet, let not men say “these are their reasons; they are natural,” for, i believe, they are portentous things unto the climate that they point upon.
out ,  out ,  thou strumpet ,  fortune !
this tunis, sir, was carthage.
i’ll be with thee straight .
is she to be buried in christian burial when she willfully seeks her own salvation ?
i will discharge thee ere i go from thee .
therefore be patient ,  take no note of him .
not so ,  my lord; for his valour cannot carry his discretion ,  and the fox carries the goose .
here’s no knavery !
o ,  let him pass .
for i am all the subjects that you have, which first was mine own king, and here you sty me in this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me the rest o‘th’ island.
you love me not.
it is no matter; let no images be hung with caesar's trophies.
wilt thou rest damned ?
o prince !
yet ,  countrymen ,  o ,  yet hold up your heads !
the poop was beaten gold ,  purple the sails ,  and so perfumèd that the winds were lovesick with them .
i think upon't ,  i think ,  i smell't ,  o villainy !
leave me ,  i say .
then swore he that he was a stranger here .
but soft!
remember first to possess his books ,  for without them he's but a sot ,  as i am ,  nor hath not one spirit to command—they all do hate him as rootedly as i .
go to, go to!
i think thou art in mind ,  and so am i .  nay ,  master ,  both in mind and in my shape .
i once more take my leave .
the skin is good for your broken coxcomb .
minion ,  thou liest .
answer every man directly.
trouble us not .
alas ,  he is betrayed and i undone .
it's true ,  good lieutenant .
i say to you this house is dark .
for ,  of my heart ,  those charms ,  thine eyes ,  are blotted .
and good monsieur ,  have a care the honey bag break not .
oh ,  this is the poison of deep grief .
i am bound to the count orsino’s court .
good morrow ,  casca . —caius ligarius ,  caesar was ne'er so much your enemy as that same ague which hath made you lean .
ay ,  caesar ,  but not gone .
not yet .
after a little time ,  i’ll beat him too .
the earth that's nature's mother is her tomb.
fairies ,  away .
what ,  is he angry ?
sweet hero ,  now thy image doth appear in the rare semblance that i loved it first .
come ,  nerissa . —
i .
but since ,  so jump upon this bloody question ,  you from the polack wars ,  and you from england ,  are here arrived ,  give order that these bodies high on a stage be placed to the view; and let me speak to the yet unknowing world how these things came about .
a could never abide carnation .
well, i will hie and so bestow these papers as you bade me.
ay ,  but the clerk that never means to do it ,  unless he live until he be a man .
it may be, very like.
then how can it be said i am alone when all the world is here to look on me ?
speak to me home .
ah ,  sirrah ,  a body would think this was well - counterfeited .
i beseech you.
i perceive these lords at this encounter do so much admire that they devour their reason and scarce think their eyes do offices of truth ,  their words are natural breath . —but howsoev'r you have been justled from your senses ,  know for certain that i am prospero and that very duke which was thrust forth of milan ,  who most strangely upon this shore where you were wracked ,  was landed ,  to be the lord on ’t .
your betters have endured me say my mind ,  and if you cannot ,  best you stop your ears .
some word there was, worser than tybalt's death, that murdered me.
why comest thou ?
well, sir?
directly ,  i am going to caesar’s funeral .
so please you ,  for i never heard it yet ,  yet heard too much of phoebe’s cruelty .
ride you this afternoon ?
count the clock .
was ever woman in this humor wooed ?
farewell .
give order to my servants that they take no note at all of our being absent hence . — nor you ,  lorenzo . —jessica ,  nor you .
honest, my lord?
my words are as full of peace as matter .
farewell ,  good launcelot .
what ,  in my sight ? —bianca ,  get thee in .
romeo !
what counterfeit did i give you?
wrinkles forbid !
my lord, from head to foot.
fear him not ,  caesar; he's not dangerous; he is a noble roman and well given .
how goes the night ,  boy ?
and ,  sir ,  tonight ,  i do entreat that we may sup together .
with her ,  on her ,  what you will .
poor bankrout ,  break at once !
well ,  we shall see your bearing .
return you to my sister .
i heard him say, brutus and cassius are rid like madmen through the gates of rome.
prithee ,  put up .
tear him ,  tear him !
what’s the matter ?
at once, good night: stand not upon the order of your going, but go at once.
farewell ,  everyone .
i say he shall go to prison .
let me still take away the harms i fear ,  not fear still to be taken .
oh ,  no ,  good kate .
this is the tune of our catch, played by the picture of nobody.
we see the ground whereon these woes do lie ,  but the true ground of all these piteous woes we cannot without circumstance descry .
and i, for winking at you, discords too, have lost a brace of kinsmen.
worthy cawdor!
now is the sun upon the highmost hill of this day's journey ,  and from nine till twelve is three long hours; yet she is not come .
declare thine office .
why ,  'tis found so .
these letters give ,  iago ,  to the pilot ,  and by him do my duties to the senate .
let housewifery appear .
what is the matter ?
calls your worship ?
hence !
o excellent young man!
know ,  caesar doth not wrong ,  nor without cause will he be satisfied .
o, teach me how you look, and with what art you sway the motion of demetrius' heart!
i am strong - framed .
my lord ,  you once did love me .
wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit i made to thee ?
is the storm overblown ?
do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
poor ophelia divided from herself and her fair judgment ,  without the which we are pictures ,  or mere beasts .
no more of that .
sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, i should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
it is the bright day that brings forth the adder and that craves wary walking .
the poison of that lies in you to temper .
is there no voice more worthy than my own ,  to sound more sweetly in great caesar's ear for the repealing of my banish'd brother ?
then comes the time ,  who lives to see ’t ,  that going shall be used with feet .
what ,  ho !
here we .
if the heavens had been pleased ,  would we had so ended !
did he receive you well?
what ,  art a heathen ?
i shall do so; but i must also feel it as a man .
and an ill singer ,  my lord .
prithee, say true.
put money in thy purse; follow thou the wars; defeat thy favor with an usurped beard .
what two crowns shall they be ?
he’s worth no more .
o, so light a foot will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.
his son was but a ward two years ago .
what ,  thou ?
o me, what hast thou done?
we love him highly, and shall continue our graces towards him.
i dare damnation .
i long to die if what thou speak'st speak not of remedy .
here is more of us .
my most dear lord !
i pray thee tell me truly how thou lik’st her .
i do not think't.
lie thou there (throwing down a letter) ,  for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling .
be it so, i do desire no more.
is it e'en so?
see where she comes from shrift with merry look .
how is it that the clouds still hang on you ?
if he be not in love with some woman ,  there is no believing old signs .
if you tickle us ,  do we not laugh ?
ha, ha, ha!
he has almost supp'd.
lives ,  sir .
no; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down.
let not thy mother lose her prayers, hamlet.
you are the queen ,  your husband's brother's wife ,  and—would it were not so—you are my mother .
why call you for a sword?
shall i say to you ,   “ let them be free !
that's two of his weapons .
i know it by their pale and deadly looks .
and i like helen, till the fates me kill.
tis not so now .
i will be hang'd ,  if some eternal villain ,  some busy and insinuating rogue ,  some cogging cozening slave ,  to get some office ,  have not devised this slander; i'll be hang'd else .
to you ,  antonio ,  i owe the most in money and in love; and from your love i have a warranty to unburthen all my plots and purposes ,  how to get clear of all the debts i owe .
hark ,  they roar .
get thee gone ,  and hire those horses .
and there assume some other horrible form ,  which might deprive your sovereignty of reason and draw you into madness ?
who builds his hopes in air of your good looks lives like a drunken sailor on a mast ,  ready with every nod to tumble down into the fatal bowels of the deep .
we must not now displease him .
truly ,  madam ,  he holds beelzebub at the staves' end as well as a man in his case may do .
the fool hath planted in his memory an army of good words; and i do know a many fools ,  that stand in better place ,  garnish'd like him ,  that for a tricksy word defy the matter .
i will speak to this fellow . —whose grave’s this ,  sirrah ?
my child is yet a stranger in the world .
tis now struck twelve.
not yet quite dead ?
he hath fought today as if a god ,  in hate of mankind ,  had destroyed in such a shape .
i would she were in heaven ,  so she could entreat some power to change this currish jew .
but i have none .
what is ,  my lord ?
signior montano, your trusty and most valiant servitor, with his free duty recommends you thus, and prays you to believe him.
am i not i' the right ,  old jephthah ?
it shall not need .
let us not leave him out.
how silver - sweet sound lovers’ tongues by night ,  like softest music to attending ears !
set me the stoups of wine upon that table .
not so ,  my lord: i am too much i' the sun .
only i here importune death awhile ,  until of many thousand kisses the poor last i lay upon thy lips .
why, how should she be murdered?
spakest thou of juliet?
is that any thing now ?
dead ,  dead ?
revive, look up, or i will die with thee!
and were the king on't ,  what would i do ?
this for him .
and so near will i be that your best friends shall wish i had been further .
and ,  which is worse ,  all you have done hath been but for a wayward son ,  spiteful and wrathful: who ,  as others do ,  loves for his own ends ,  not for you .
faith, here's an english tailor come hither, for stealing out of a french hose.
now i but chide ,  but i should use thee worse ,  for thou ,  i fear ,  hast given me cause to curse .
he is returned .
ay ,  but the clerk that never means to do it unless he live until he be a man .
it is not for your health thus to commit your weak condition to the raw cold morning.
come ,  good athenian .
or i have no observance .
can you do me greater harm than hate ?
that i distrust you.
one speak for both:—what would you ?
i will assume thy part in some disguise and tell fair hero i am claudio ,  and in her bosom i’ll unclasp my heart and take her hearing prisoner with the force and strong encounter of my amorous tale .
what ?
then saw you not his face?
early tomorrow will we rise and hence .
what kind of help ?
shylock, the world thinks, and i think so too, that thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice to the last hour of act; and then, 'tis thought thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse, more strange than is thy strange apparent cruelty: and where thou now exact'st the penalty, (which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,) thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture, but, touch'd with human gentleness and love, forgive a moiety of the principal; glancing an eye of pity on his losses, that have of late so huddled on his back, enough to press a royal merchant down, and pluck commiseration of his state from brassy bosoms, and rough hearts of flint, from stubborn turks and tartars, never train'd to offices of tender courtesy.
if thou canst nod ,  speak too .
the earth hath bubbles as the water has, and these are of them.
what warlike noise is this ?
is he not approved in the height a villain ,  that hath slandered ,  scorned ,  dishonored my kinswoman ?
tybalt’s death was woe enough ,  if it had ended there .
we doubt not of a fair and lucky war ,  since god so graciously hath brought to light this dangerous treason lurking in our way to hinder our beginnings .
by my holy order ,  i thought thy disposition better tempered .
o good antonio ,  forgive me your trouble .
you have dancing shoes with nimble soles; i have a soul of lead so stakes me to the ground i cannot move .
i had thought to have let in some of all professions, that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire.
pindarus ,  bid our commanders lead their charges off a little from this ground .
or charles or something weaker masters thee .
o, my antonio!
go with me to a notary ,  seal me there your single bond ,  and—in a merry sport— if you repay me not on such a day ,  in such a place ,  such sum or sums as are expressed in the condition ,  let the forfeit be nominated for an equal pound of your fair flesh ,  to be cut off and taken in what part of your body pleaseth me .
upon what sickness ?
how wilt thou do for a father ?
come ,  merchant ,  have you any thing to say ?
dromio ,  nor thou ?
well, more anon.
stand thee close ,  then ,  under this penthouse ,  for it drizzles rain ,  and i will ,  like a true drunkard ,  utter all to thee .
o that i were a glove upon that hand, that i might touch that cheek!
heaven will direct it.
what ,  shall i stab him as he sleeps ?
can you make no use of your discontent ?
be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd; here is my journey's end, here is my butt and very seamark of my utmost sail.
remember that you call on me today .
marry, heaven forbid!
o heavy deed!
ride ,  ride ,  messala ,  ride ,  and give these bills unto the legions on the other side .
if e'er the jew her father come to heaven ,  it will be for his gentle daughter's sake: and never dare misfortune cross her foot ,  unless she do it under this excuse , — that she is issue to a faithless jew .
the king ,  sir ,  hath laid that in a dozen passes between yourself and him ,  he shall not exceed you three hits .
give me the gown .
when the blood is made dull with the act of sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manners, and beauties; all which the moor is defec- tive in.
the day is yours .
i will walk by .
start ,  eyes !
this guest of summer ,  the temple - haunting martlet ,  does approve ,  by his loved mansionry ,  that the heaven’s breath smells wooingly here .
let it not, brutus.
to sebastian] he'd sow't with or docks ,  or mallows .
the king my father?
master ,  shall i be porter at the gate ?
o caesar !
for she his hairy temples then had rounded with a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers ,  and that same dew ,  which sometime on the buds was wont to swell like round and orient pearls ,  stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes like tears that did their own disgrace bewail .
but ,  mistress ,  know yourself .
how say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
my life upon her faith ! —honest iago ,  my desdemona must i leave to thee .
whither are they vanish'd?
read the will!
conceit ,  more rich in matter than in words ,  brags of his substance ,  not of ornament .
o ,  serve me well ,  and teach yourselves that duty !
where is my father ?
answer me directly.
but if she cannot love you ,  sir ?
o, in this love, you love your child so ill that you run mad, seeing that she is well.
there must be conclusions .
what sense had i in her stol'n hours of lust ?
brutus is wise ,  and ,  were he not in health ,  he would embrace the means to come by it .
if i had a thunderbolt in mine eye ,  i can tell who should down .
you shall ,  mark antony .
what ,  still in tears ?
therefore i pray you lead me to the caskets to try my fortune .
art of this house ?
oh ,  make an end of what i have begun !
ha ,  it may be i go under that title because i am merry .
that would i ,  were i of all kingdoms king .
heaven keep the monster from othello’s mind !
i think it was to see my mother’s wedding .
this skull hath lain in the earth three and twenty years .
faith ,  no ,  as you may season it in the charge .
o, did he so?
no, my good lord.
upon mine honour, sir, i heard a humming, and that a strange one too, which did awake me.
sblood, but you will not hear me.
i have no more sons of the royal blood for thee to slaughter .
cupid is a knavish lad  thus to make poor females mad .
but i'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.
these moors are changeable in their wills—fill thy purse with money .
a challenge ,  on my life .
where art thou now ?
thou dost thy office fairly .
if you shall cleave to my consent ,  when ’tis ,  it shall make honor for you .
scorn and derision never come in tears.
is the king dead ,  the empire unpossessed ?
who does beguile you ?
sir walter herbert ,  a renownèd soldier; sir gilbert talbot ,  sir william stanley ,  oxford ,  redoubted pembroke ,  sir james blunt ,  and rice ap thomas ,  with a valiant crew ,  and many other of great name and worth; and towards london they do bend their power ,  if by the way they be not fought withal .
i cannot live to hear the news from england ,  but i do prophesy the election lights on fortinbras .
all disconsolate ,  with pindarus his bondman on this hill .
i kiss the wall's hole ,  not your lips at all .
keep promise ,  love .
for what had he to do to chide at me ?
kill the poys and the luggage !
it goes not forward .
tis call'd the evil: a most miraculous work in this good king ,  which often ,  since my here - remain in england ,  i have seen him do .
pray you ,  away .
let them come in .
the more i love ,  the more he hateth me .
why ,  whither ,  adam ,  wouldst thou have me go ?
bernardo hath my place .
that is the very defect of the matter ,  sir .
i take thee at thy word.
he has kill'd me ,  mother .
tis hatched ,  and shall be so .
therefore stay yet .
i’ll never see ’t !
sad ,  lady !
this you should pity rather than despise .
why dost thou stay ?
do you think 'tis this?
the obsequies that i for thee will keep nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
what is his name ?
alas ,  then she is drowned .
yet i suppose him virtuous ,  know him noble ,  of great estate ,  of fresh and stainless youth .
ay ,  so i thought .
pray you ,  if it be ,  give it me ,  for i am slow of study .
what's the matter ?
or here, or at the capitol.
i am pale ,  charmian .
go ,  then ,  for ’tis in vain to seek him here that means not to be found .
i would my daughter were dead at my foot and the jewels in her ear !
but, adieu!
hear me ,  for i will speak .
alla stoccata carries it away .
you must not think that we are made of stuff so flat and dull that we can let our beard be shook with danger, and think it pastime.
he hath commission from thy wife and me to hang cordelia in the prison and to lay the blame upon her own despair ,  that she fordid herself .
then slip i from her bum ,  down topples she ,  and  “ tailor !  ”  cries ,  and falls into a cough ,  and then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh ,  and waxen in their mirth ,  and neeze ,  and swear a merrier hour was never wasted there .
thanks ,  sir: the like to you !
in sooth ,  i know not why i am so sad; it wearies me; you say it wearies you; but how i caught it ,  found it ,  or came by it ,  what stuff 'tis made of ,  whereof it is born ,  i am to learn; and such a want - wit sadness makes of me ,  that i have much ado to know myself .
i had rather be a dog, and bay the moon, than such a roman.
who’s that ?
go to ,  well said ,  well said .
who's there, in th’ other devil's name?
he doth; for he did bid antonius send word to you he would be there tomorrow.
i am sorry for thee; thou art come to answer a stony adversary ,  an inhuman wretch uncapable of pity ,  void and empty from any dram of mercy .
it shall go hard if  “ cambio ”  go without her .
made you no more offense but what you speak of ?
wisdom ?
let it be so .
this casket threatens .
o murderous slumber ,  layst thou thy leaden mace upon my boy that plays thee music ? —gentle knave ,  good night .
i mean in singing .
o monstrous act !
mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
therefore  you will not pay for the glasses you have burst ?
no ,  my lord .
here is a ring she bid me give you ,  sir .
this damned witch sycorax, for mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible to enter human hearing, from algiers thou know'st was banished—for one thing she did they would not take her life.
now is the sun upon the highmost hill of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve is three long hours; yet she is not come.
trust me ,  i take him for the better dog .
oh ,  that we then could come by caesar’s spirit and not dismember caesar !
go to ,  go to . —come hither ,  sir .
you must therefore be content to slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous expedition .
the world esteemed thy father honorable ,  but i did find him still mine enemy .
i heard him say ,  brutus and cassius are rid like madmen through the gates of rome .
it were too gross to rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave .
carried to colmekill, the sacred storehouse of his predecessors and guardian of their bones.
what is the news ?
if any ,  speak ,  for him have i offended .
by heaven ,  i do not ,  i do not ,  gentlemen .
scornful lysander !
before my god ,  i might not this believe without the sensible and true avouch of mine own eyes .
no .
why dost thou wring thy hands ?
the hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds of wide arabia are as thoroughfares now for princes to come view fair portia .
all lost !
lucius, who's that knocks?
halfway down hangs one that gathers samphire—dreadful trade !
tis truly so .
and when she speaks ,  is it not an alarum to love ?
yearly will i do this rite .
a pox o'that!
my necessaries are embark'd.
no .
o sir ,  you are too sure an augurer .
sleeping and waking ,  o ,  defend me still !
where art thou ?
i will not long be troubled with you .
no more of that.
and where the worser is predominant ,  full soon the canker death eats up that plant .
and now i pray you ,  sir— for still ’tis beating in my mind , —your reason for raising this sea - storm .
honest nurse, farewell.
stands scotland where it did?
without ,  my lord; guarded ,  to know your pleasure .
what’s the matter ?
it is a common thing— ha!
use lenity ,  sweet chuck .
it is a good divine that follows his own instructions: i can easier teach twenty what were good to be done ,  than be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching .
good my lord ,  how does your honor for this many a day ?
excellent well .
i hope we have reformed that indifferently with us, sir.
i am a very foolish fond old man ,  fourscore and upward ,  not an hour more nor less .
yet stay awhile ,  thou shalt not back till i have borne this corse into the market - place .
this same should be the voice of friar john.
look ,  here she comes .
what ,  with my tongue in your tail ?
ay ,  my lord .
more than prince of cats ,  i can tell you .
a many of our bodies shall no doubt find native graves ,  upon the which ,  i trust ,  shall witness live in brass of this day’s work .
o day!
pardon me ,  sweet one ,  even for the vows we made each other but so late ago .
news from verona!
the lady protests too much ,  methinks .
strumpet ,  i come .
then there is the county palatine .
i will apprehend him .
heaven bless the isle of cyprus and our noble general othello !
or is it a fee-grief due to some single breast?
what ,  what ?
did this companion with the saffron face revel and feast it at my house today whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut and i denied to enter in my house ?
where is the rascal cook ?
with rosaline ,  my ghostly father ?
that’s more to me than my wetting .
hast thou ,  spirit ,  performed to point the tempest that i bade thee ?
he sings at grave -  making .
you have done well, that men must lay their murders on your neck.
i’ll claim that promise at your grace’s hands .
my liege ,  here is a villain and a traitor ,  that ,  look your grace ,  has struck the glove which your majesty is take out of the helmet of alençon .
if it will please caesar to be so good to caesar as to hear me ,  i shall beseech him to befriend himself .
put up thy sword ,  or manage it to part these men with me .
i am not stephano ,  but a cramp .
danger knows full well that caesar is more dangerous than he .
let me work .
if the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb ,  is it meet ,  think you ,  that we should also ,  look you ,  be an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb ,  in your own conscience ,  now ?
i say ,  remember .
i pray you, in your letters, when you shall these unlucky deeds relate, speak of me as i am; nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in malice.
did you ne'er hear say ,   “ two may keep counsel ,  putting one away ”  ?
brutus speaks .
ay ,  my commander .
but macbeth is.
and yesternight ,  at supper ,  you suddenly arose and walked about ,  musing and sighing ,  with your arms across ,  and when i asked you what the matter was ,  you stared upon me with ungentle looks .
tweaks me by the nose ?
i think that one of them is hereabout, and cannot make away.
it is much, that the moor should be more than reason: but if she be less than an honest woman, she is, indeed more than i took her for.
ah ,  my tender babes ,  my unblown flowers ,  new - appearing sweets ,  if yet your gentle souls fly in the air and be not fixed in doom perpetual ,  hover about me with your airy wings and hear your mother’s lamentation .
ha!
that with this little arm and this good sword i have made my way through more impediments than twenty times your stop .
now i but chide, but i should use thee worse, for thou, i fear, hast given me cause to curse.
she’s busy ,  and she cannot come !  ”  is that an answer ?
dost thou hear ,  iago ?
indeed she's a most fresh and delicate creature .
dost thou hear ,  my honest friend ?
marry ,  i fare well ,  for here is cheer enough .
but i'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle .
who can impress the forest, bid the tree unfix his earth-bound root?
starveling !
faith ,  once or twice she heaved the name of  “ father ”  pantingly forth as if it pressed her heart ,  cried ,   “ sisters ,  sisters !
they are afoot .
o hell - kite !
i pray thee ,  good horatio ,  wait upon him .
speak not of helena .
it shall be call'd ‘bottom's dream,’ because it hath no bottom; and i will sing it in the latter end of a play, before the duke.
there are ways to recover the general again .
no passage ?
ah, well-a-day!
come hither .
tis brief ,  my lord .
hence .
what eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel ?
a good and virtuous nature may recoil in an imperial charge .
an adder did it ,  for with doubler tongue than thine ,  thou serpent ,  never adder stung .
fulvia thy wife is dead .
come, come; lend me a light.
i shaked you ,  sir ,  and cried .
to trinculo] how didst thou ’scape?
henceforward do your messages yourself.
hear you ought of her in yours?
by the gods ,  you shall digest the venom of your spleen ,  though it do split you ,  for ,  from this day forth ,  i'll use you for my mirth ,  yea ,  for my laughter ,  when you are waspish .
so please my lord the duke, and all the court to quit the fine for one half of his goods; i am content, so he will let me have the other half in use, to render it, upon his death, unto the gentleman that lately stole his daughter; two things provided more,—that for this favour, he presently become a christian; the other, that he do record a gift, here in the court, of all he dies possess'd, unto his son lorenzo and his daughter.
is he not able to discharge the money?
nay ,  how will you do for a husband ?
my purpose is ,  indeed ,  a horse of that color .
cassio ,  my lord ,  hath killed a young venetian called roderigo .
never ,  my lord .
she speaks poniards ,  and every word stabs .
pardon, i beseech you!
your servant kent .
look in the calendar and bring me word.
well, happiness to their sheets!
your cousin ,  my lady ,  takes great exceptions to your ill hours .
come ,  kate ,  we’ll to bed .
how comes that ?
that is a step on which i must fall down ,  or else o'erleap ,  for in my way it lies .
dost thou believe ,  orlando ,  that the boy can do all this that he hath promisèd ?
there is but one hope in it that can do you any good; and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither.
beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold .
mass ,  and my elbow itched ,  i thought there would a scab follow .
pray you now ,  nay ,  do so ,  for indeed i have lost command .
i know the hand: in faith, 'tis a fair hand; and whiter than the paper it writ on, is the fair hand that writ.
nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.
i am transformèd ,  master ,  am i not ?
what dost thou mean ?
what trash is rome, what rubbish and what offal, when it serves for the base matter to illuminate so vile a thing as caesar?
your eyes do menace me .
within our files there are ,  of those that served mark antony but late ,  enough to fetch him in .
how canst thou cross this marriage ?
but, in the verity of extolment, i take him to be a soul of great article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
my remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offense done to any man .
let me comply with you in this garb—lest my extent to the players ,  which ,  i tell you ,  must show fairly outwards ,  should more appear like entertainment than yours .
make her amends ,  she weeps .
sir ,  most heedfully .
i will dispatch it straight .
i know him well .
have you that holy feeling in your souls to counsel me to make my peace with god ,  and art you yet to your own souls so blind that thou will war with god by murd'ring me ?
i shall take it ,  sir .
nothing ,  unless you render her again .
nothing could have subdued nature to such a lowness but his unkind daughters .
your worth is very dear in my regard .
till noon ?
orsino ,  noble sir ,  be pleased that i shake off these names you give me .
which way ran he that kill'd mercutio ?
o, wilt thou darkling leave me?
i have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
how now!
would ’twere done .
aroint thee, witch!” the rump-fed ronyon cries.
and yet thou wilt tutor me from quarrelling !
he loves me well ,  and i have given him reasons; send him but hither ,  and i'll fashion him .
to prayers ,  to prayers !
go you down that way towards the capitol; this way will i. disrobe the images, if you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
arm'd, say you?
i have a venturous fairy that shall seek the squirrel’s hoard and fetch thee new nuts .
o ,  now i need the priest that spake to me !
and yet to me what is this quintessence of dust ?
do they hold the same estimation they did when i was in the city?
now i have taken heart thou vanishest .
a turn or two i’ll walk to still my beating mind .
tis most true; and he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties to hear and see the matter.
let's follow ,  gertrude .
no ,  not till thursday .
why ,  man ,  they did make love to this employment .
night hangs upon mine eyes ,  my bones would rest that have but labor'd to attain this hour .
here come the officers .
when i told you my state was nothing ,  i should then have told you that i was worse than nothing; for ,  indeed ,  i have engag'd myself to a dear friend ,  engag'd my friend to his mere enemy ,  to feed my means .
but stop my house’s ears—i mean my casements— let not the sound of shallow foppery enter my sober house .
o ye gods ,  render me worthy of this noble wife !
here is the number of the slaughtered french .
think you i am no stronger than my sex ,  being so fathered and so husbanded ?
o god, i could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space, were it not that i have bad dreams.
look ,  he meditates .
what ,  art thou hurt ?
come to the capitol .
wash me in steepdown gulfs of liquid fire!
as birds do ,  mother .
your graces are right welcome .
the people 'twixt philippi and this ground do stand but in a forced affection ,  for they have grudged us contribution .
th' affair cries haste and speed must answer it .
good gentlemen ,  he hath much talk'd of you ,  and sure i am two men there are not living to whom he more adheres .
what ?
you should not have believed me; for virtue cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it.
well ,  honor is the subject of my story .
there is no obstruction in this .
i do not like the office; but sith i am enter'd in this cause so far, prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love, i will go on.
whip me, ye devils, from the possession of this heavenly sight!
i’ll make a sop o' th' moonshine of you .
what shall i do ?
i shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster.
o noble judge !
triple - turned whore !
the charm's wound up.
yea ,  from the table of my memory i'll wipe away all trivial fond records ,  all saws of books ,  all forms ,  all pressures past ,  that youth and observation copied there; and thy commandment all alone shall live within the book and volume of my brain ,  unmix'd with baser matter .
the violence of either grief or joy their own enactures with themselves destroy.
arise ,  you shall not kneel .
farewell .
let the old ruffian know i have many other ways to die ,  meantime laugh at his challenge .
one draught above heat makes him a fool ,  the second mads him ,  and a third drowns him .
my heart prays for him ,  though my tongue do curse .
where is polonius ?
my oberon !
my lord ,  from head to foot .
give me thy hand.
throw physic to the dogs ,  i'll none of it .
come .
let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him .
i will incontinently drown myself.
nay ,  an you be a cursing hypocrite once ,  you must be looked to .
turn up on your right hand at the next turning ,  but at the next turning of all on your left .
the moon sleeps with endymion ,  and would not be awak'd .
if this letter move him not ,  his legs cannot .
never hung poison on a fouler toad .
if my heart's dear love— well ,  do not swear .
look ,  where she comes .
i crave the law, the penalty and forfeit of my bond.
lo ,  here i lie ,  never to rise again .
i give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange .
she hath betrayed me and shall die the death .
i have heard it over ,  and it is nothing ,  nothing in the world; unless you can find sport in their intents ,  extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain ,  to do you service .
ay ,  marry ,  now unmuzzle your wisdom .
wouldst thou have that which thou esteem'st the ornament of life and live a coward in thine own esteem ,  letting  “ i dare not ”  wait upon  “ i would ”  like the poor cat i’ the adage ?
oh ho ,  are you there with me ?
is't possible ?
methought i lay worse than the mutines in the bilboes.
he's a traitor .
how many cowards whose hearts are all as false as stairs of sand wear yet upon their chins the beards of hercules and frowning mars ,  who ,  inward searched ,  have livers white as milk ,  and these assume but valor’s excrement to render them redoubted .
adieu .
and is't not to be damn'd to let this canker of our nature come in further evil ?
for your physicians have expressly charged ,  in peril to incur your former malady ,  that i should yet absent me from your bed .
and is it not, then, well serv'd in to a sweet goose?
hear'st thou of them ?
i there it goes, silver!
know that it was he ,  in the times past ,  which held you so under fortune ,  which you thought had been our innocent self ?
god forgive me !
o ill - starred wench ,  pale as thy smock !
o heaven defend me !
perish the man whose mind is backward now !
the honorable lady of the house ,  which is she ?
it would become me as well as it does you; and i should do it with much more ease ,  for my good will is to it ,  and yours it is against .
the cess of majesty dies not alone ,  but like a gulf doth draw what's near it with it .
villain, thou diest!
come what come may, [aside.
cool it with a baboon's blood ,  then the charm is firm and good .
villainous thoughts ,  roderigo !
brutus ,  my lord .
cassio ,  may you suspect who they should be that have thus mangled you ?
what care i what curious eye doth quote deformities ?
i have great comfort from this fellow .
ha!
peace ,  peace !
i should venture purgatory for't .
who is so gross that cannot see this palpable device ?
there lies the duke asleep ,  and there the keys .
as a friend.
attend those men our pleasure?
nay ,  lay thee down and roar; for thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent that e'er did lift up eye .
let’s away and get our jewels and our wealth together ,  devise the fittest time and safest way to hide us from pursuit that will be made after my flight .
proclaim no shame when the compulsive ardour gives the charge, since frost itself as actively doth burn, and reason panders will.
what ,  goodman boy ?
half - blooded fellow ,  yes .
having once this juice ,  i’ll watch titania when she is asleep and drop the liquor of it in her eyes .
i will go seek the king .
what tidings can you tell me of my lord?
take it in what sense thou wilt.
at the duke's oak we meet.
thus it must be .
mark antony ,  here ,  take you caesar's body .
dexterously ,  good madonna .
why should titania cross her oberon ?
young men's love then lies not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
i’ll to the friar to know his remedy .
the count claudio shall marry the daughter of leonato .
fairy king ,  attend and mark; i do hear the morning lark .
we'll answer .
cassio did top her; ask thy husband else .
what ,  of death too ,  that rids our dogs of languish ?
if it had been painful ,  i would not have come .
bid her devise some means to come to shrift this afternoon; and there she shall at friar laurence’ cell be shriv'd and married .
and how cam’st thou hither ?
the thane of fife had a wife; where is she now ?
presently .
only myself stood out; for which ,  if i be lapsèd in this place ,  i shall pay dear .
i thank your lordship, it is very hot.
we should hold day with the antipodes, if you would walk in absence of the sun.
let us our lives ,  our souls ,  our debts ,  our careful wives ,  our children ,  and our sins lay on the king !
now, sir, her father counts it dangerous that she do give her sorrow so much sway, and in his wisdom hastes our marriage to stop the inundation of her tears, which, too much minded by herself alone, may be put from her by society.
but one ,  poor one ,  one poor and loving child ,  but one thing to rejoice and solace in ,  and cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight !
no harm .
perhaps some merchant hath invited him ,  and from the mart he’s somewhere gone to dinner .
that drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard; cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot even here, between the chaste unsmirched brows of my true mother.
this were kindness .
he is address'd; press near and second him.
how cam'st thou hither?
juliet, the county stays.
and so they parted .
give me thy hand ,  messala .
tweaks me by the nose?
my lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king.
if 'twere no other— 'tis but so ,  i warrant .
go waken juliet .
small joy have i in being england’s queen .
o ,  say !
hear me ,  beatrice— talk with a man out at a window !
thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul ,  and there i see such black and grained spots as will not leave their tinct .
talk you of killing ?
i leave an arrant knave with your worship ,  which i beseech your worship to correct yourself ,  for the example of others .
now we'll together, and the chance of goodness be like our warranted quarrel!
thou shalt go back ,  i warrant thee !
hold, my hand.
this is the night that either makes me or fordoes me quite .
thou hast not half that power to do me harm as i have to be hurt.
my dearest love ,  duncan comes here tonight .
amen !
how will this fadge ?
appear and pertly!
sir toby belch !
i'll not fight with thee .
a sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch ,  past speaking of in a king .
come ,  seek the conspirators .
read thou this challenge .
i loved ophelia .
yes ,  they have .
yours ,  by this hand .
read this schedule.
besides, it should appear, that if he had the present money to discharge the jew, he would not take it.
come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower.
to my sick soul ,  as sin's true nature is ,  each toy seems prologue to some great amiss .
you take my house when you do take the prop that doth sustain my house .
and what your highness suffered under that shape ,  i beseech you take it for your own fault and not mine ,  for ,  had you been as i took you for ,  i made no offense .
come .
thy asses are gone about 'em .
my lord ,  my lord !
followed the old man forth .
why seek'st thou me?
and they have been grand - jurymen since before noah was a sailor .
saw you no more ?
why ,  i were best to cut my left hand off and swear i lost the ring defending it .
let's meet him and receive him.
it shall be said his judgement ruled our hands; our youths and wildness shall no whit appear, but all be buried in his gravity.
to die ,  to sleep— no more—and by a sleep to say we end the heartache and the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to—’tis a consummation devoutly to be wished !
how say you?
i never heard a passion so confused ,  so strange ,  outrageous ,  and so variable ,  as the dog jew did utter in the streets .
ay ,  my lord .
will you dispatch us here under this tree ,  or shall we go with you to your chapel ?
and welcome ,  welcome !
do you confess the bond ?
now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both!
here comes my man .
when i come where he calls ,  then he is gone .
but yet for all that ,  an if she did not hate him deadly ,  she would love him dearly .
farewell ,  kind lord .
have not you love enough to bear with me ,  when that rash humor which my mother gave me makes me forgetful ?
how goes the night, boy?
and wake diana with a hymn; with sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear ,  and draw her home with music .
you are both sure ,  and will assist me ?
if the tag - rag people did not clap him and hiss him according as he pleased and displeased them ,  as they use to do the players in the theatre ,  i am no true man .
oh ,  he is gone indeed .
and pardon me, my gentle gratiano; for that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk, in lieu of this last night did lie with me.
here were the servants of your adversary and yours ,  close fighting ere i did approach .
brought you caesar home?
she speaks .
o kate ,  content thee .
go to ,  charm your tongue .
riotous madness ,  to be entangled with those mouth - made vows which break themselves in swearing !
toad ,  that under cold stone days and nights has thirty - one swelter'd venom sleeping got ,  boil thou first i’ the charmed pot .
be not afeard .
art thou contented, jew?
what ,  not one hit ?
but did’st thou see them dead ?
but what talk we of fathers when there is such a man as orlando ?
my duty hushes me .
brutus ,  this sober form of yours hides wrongs ,  and when you do them— cassius ,  be content ,  speak your griefs softly ,  i do know you well .
now ,  good sweet nurse—o lord ,  why look'st thou sad ?
and i .
directly ,  i am going to caesar's funeral .
can any of your neighbors tell ,  kate ?
go to ,  go to !
what news, my lord?
see ,  they encounter thee with their hearts’ thanks .
do you triumph ?
ha !
if you deny it ,  let the danger light upon your charter and your city’s freedom .
what love could press lysander from my side ?
here comes the count .
or came it by request ,  and such fair question as soul to soul affordeth ?
i would exult ,  man .
thou art thy father’s daughter .
if thou dost nod ,  thou break'st thy instrument; i'll take it from thee; and ,  good boy ,  good night .
faith, that was not so well; yet would i knew that stroke would prove the worst!
to our house .
o—desdemona— my lord?
ay ,  on mine honor .
by jove ,  i am not covetous for gold nor care i who doth feed upon my cost; it yearns me not if men my garments wear; such outward things dwell not in my desires .
and we’ll consign thereto . —will you ,  fair sister ,  go with the princes or stay here with us ?
she loves me ,  sure !
i pray thee ,  let us go and find him out ,  and quicken his embraced heaviness ,  with some delight or other .
they hold up adam's profession .
ay me!
i would thou hadst my bones ,  and i thy news .
my lord ,  i do not know that i did cry .
what ,  do you shake at that ?
whither to supper?
good my lord ,  what is your cause of distemper ?
there is not chastity enough in language ,  without offense ,  to utter them . —thus ,  pretty lady ,  i am sorry for thy much misgovernment .
o these deliberate fools !
i that am cruel am yet merciful; i would not have thee linger in thy pain.
who is't that calls?
for us ,  we will resign during the life of this old majesty to him our absolute power .
come ,  go along .
why, why is this?
are you a man ?
the direful spectacle of the wreck ,  which touched the very virtue of compassion in thee ,  i have with such provision in mine art so safely ordered that there is no soul— no ,  not so much perdition as an hair betid to any creature in the vessel which thou heard'st cry ,  which though saw'st sink .
we'll wait upon your lordship.
i cry you gentle pardon; these bloody accidents must excuse my manners, that so neglected you.
death of thy soul !
if the matter of this paper be certain ,  you have mighty business in hand .
for what purpose, love?
my brother and thy uncle ,  called antonio— i pray thee mark me ,  that a brother should be so perfidious—he whom next thyself of all the world i loved ,  and to him put the manage of my state; as at that time through all the signories it was the first ,  and prospero the prime duke ,  being so reputed in dignity ,  and for the liberal arts without a parallel; those being all my study ,  the government i cast upon my brother ,  and to my state grew stranger ,  being transported and rapt in secret studies .
soft !
hippolyta, i woo'd thee with my sword, and won thy love doing thee injuries; but i will wed thee in another key, with pomp, with triumph, and with revelling.
what ,  shall i find you here ?
i do .
fetch us in fuel, and be quick, thou'rt best, to answer other business.—shrug'st thou, malice?
merciful powers, restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature gives way to in repose!
my lord?
my lord and lady, it is now our time, that have stood by, and seen our wishes prosper, to cry, good joy; good joy, my lord and lady!
borrow cupid's wings and soar with them above a common bound.
it was well done, and thou shalt sleep again; i will not hold thee long.
come ,  come ,  thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in italy; and as soon moved to be moody ,  and as soon moody to be moved .
but ,  sirrah ,  you shall buy this sport as dear as all the metal in your shop will answer .
why ,  whither shall we go ?
go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
said he not so?
marry ,  i would not do such a thing for a jointring ,  nor for measures of lawn ,  nor for gowns ,  petticoats ,  nor caps ,  nor any petty exhibition; but ,  for the whole world why ,  who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch ?
now ,  fellow ,  what is there ?
the king is full of grace and fair regard .
we will meet; and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously.
say ,  if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths ,  or from our masters ?
it proves not so.
no .
yes ,  being kept together and put to use .
we hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd in england and in ireland, not confessing their cruel parricide, filling their hearers with strange invention.
well ,  i will do it ,  though i take thee in the king’s company .
it is impossible they bear it out .
i would have blowed up the town ,  so chrish save me ,  la ,  in an hour .
ha !
only in the world i fill up a place which may be better supplied when i have made it empty .
alas, you know not; i must tell you then.
here's the smell of the blood still.
proud can i never be of what i hate ,  but thankful even for hate that is meant love .
they shall be married tomorrow ,  and i will bid the duke to the nuptial .
o ye immortal gods !
be that the uttermost ,  and fail not then .
o excellent device— and make a sop of him .
i would i had been there .
let me wipe it first .
i think upon't, i think, i smell't, o villainy!
o brave iago ,  honest and just ,  that hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong !
quick, quick, i pray thee, draw the curtain straight; the prince of arragon hath ta'en his oath, and comes to his election presently.
ha!—where?
by jacob’s staff ,  i swear ,  i have no mind of feasting forth tonight .
how can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own defence?
o good horatio ,  i'll take the ghost's word for a thousand pound !
not so sick, my lord, as she is troubled with thick-coming fancies, that keep her from her rest.
fourscore ducats!
he is much changed .
i told you ,  sir ,  they were red - hot with drinking; so fun of valour that they smote the air for breathing in their faces ,  beat the ground for kissing of their feet; yet always bending towards their project .
oh ,  temperance ,  lady !
the moor replies that he you hurt is of great fame in cyprus and great affinity ,  and that in wholesome wisdom he might not but refuse you .
ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
here comes another troop to seek for you .
so fare you well, till we shall meet again.
i have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is bestial.
i thank your lordship .
he is wise, and, on my life, hath stol'n him home to bed.
the wager ?
it cannot be but thou hast murder'd him; so should a murderer look, so dead, so grim.
who’s that ?
this morning ,  like the spirit of a youth that means to be of note ,  begins betimes .
wouldst thou have that which thou esteem'st the ornament of life and live a coward in thine own esteem, letting “i dare not” wait upon “i would” like the poor cat i’ the adage?
bless thee ,  bottom ,  bless thee .
their perfume lost, take these again; for to the noble mind rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
thus we may see ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ how the world wags .
you all do know this mantle .
quite chop - fallen ?
heaven's face doth glow; yea ,  this solidity and compound mass ,  with tristful visage ,  as against the doom ,  is thought - sick at the act .
here ,  kiss the book .
run to the capitol ,  and nothing else ?
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
she hath good leave .
there's not a nobler man in rome than antony .
romeo is banishèd .  ”  there is no end ,  no limit ,  measure ,  bound ,  in that word’s death .
honest ,  my lord ?
the goodness of the night upon you ,  friends !
why ,  tell me ,  is not this my cambio ?
an we do not ,  it is pity of our lives .
but take a taste of my finding him ,  and relish it with good observance .
no .
blest pudding!
here comes another of the tribe; a third cannot be matched ,  unless the devil himself turn jew .
come .
your husband being troubled with a shrew measures my husband’s sorrow by his woe .
what players are they ?
nothing in his life became him like the leaving it; he died as one that had been studied in his death ,  to throw away the dearest thing he owed as ’twere a careless trifle .
master ,  master ,  look about you .
for us ,  you know whose he is we are ,  and that is caesar’s .
i fear i wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabbed caesar .
what’s this ?
hie to high fortune !
well ,  then i shall see thee again ?
delay not ,  caesar .
anon .
marry ,  that can hero !
and for the more better assurance ,  tell them that i ,  pyramus ,  am not pyramus ,  but bottom the weaver .
their defeat does by their own insinuation grow .
still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind ,  says ,   “ suum ,  mun ,  nonny .  ”  dauphin my boy ,  my boy ,  cessez .
romeo!
if that his majesty would aught with us, we shall express our duty in his eye; and let him know so.
what ,  man ,  ’tis a night of revels !
thy mistress' marks ?
go fetch them hither .
therefore, jew, though justice be thy plea, consider this— that in the course of justice, none of us should see salvation: we do pray for mercy; and that same prayer, doth teach us all to render the deeds of mercy.
you ,  ladies ,  you ,  whose gentle hearts do fear the smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor ,  may now ,  perchance ,  both quake and tremble here ,  when lion rough in wildest rage doth roar .
ay, past all surgery.
oh !
aside] honest lord ,  [aside] honest lord ,  thou hast said well ,  for some of you there present are worse than devils .
know’st thou gower ?
bind up my wounds !
heaven, and thy thoughts, are witness that thou art.
would i were satisfied !
make thy two eyes ,  like stars ,  start from their spheres ,  thy knotted and combinèd locks to part and each particular hair to stand on end ,  like quills upon the fearful porpentine .
o love !
i have spoke thus much, to mitigate the justice of thy plea, which if thou follow, this strict court of venice must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there.
the town sounds a parley .
there is no terror ,  cassius ,  in your threats ,  for i am arm'd so strong in honesty ,  that they pass by me as the idle wind which i respect not .
thou canst not teach me to forget .
your shoes is not so good .
if she will stir hither ,  i shall seem to notify unto her .
brutus ”  will start a spirit as soon as  “ caesar .  ”  now in the names of all the gods at once ,  upon what meat doth this our caesar feed that he is grown so great ?
leave ,  gentle wax ,  and ,  manners ,  blame us not .
i am but hurt.
dead ?
nothing .
the man is ,  notwithstanding ,  sufficient;—three thousand ducats; —i think i may take his bond .
aside] fair encounter [aside] fair encounter of two most rare affections !
but are they ,  ariel ,  safe ?
these things ,  come thus to light ,  smother her spirits up .
ah ,  welladay !
farewell.
oh ,  quick ,  or i am gone .
come ,  come ,  you're drunk .
if thou didst ever thy dear father love— o god!
he had a fever when he was in spain, and when the fit was on him, i did mark how he did shake.
i am not so reputed !
do you intend to stay with me tonight ?
meagre were his looks, sharp misery had worn him to the bones; and in his needy shop a tortoise hung, an alligator stuff'd, and other skins of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves a beggarly account of empty boxes, green earthen pots, bladders, and musty seeds, remnants of packthread, and old cakes of roses were thinly scattered, to make up a show.
tonight i take my leave .
i dare not drink yet ,  madam—by - and - by .
thyself a queen ,  for me that was a queen ,  outlive thy glory ,  like my wretched self .
not proud you have ,  but thankful that you have .
tis a vile thing to die ,  my gracious lord ,  when men are unprepared and look not for it .
signior bassanio,— gratiano!
amen to that ,  sweet powers !
do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day ,  lest he knock that about yours .
i'll mark the play .
why dost thou lead these men about the streets ?
tie up my love’s tongue .
the king hath granted every article ,  his daughter first ,  and ,  in sequel ,  all ,  according to their firm proposed natures .
i know her father ,  though i know not her ,  and he knew my deceasèd father well .
what impossible matter will he make easy next ?
come to the capitol.
it must needs be of subtle ,  tender ,  and delicate temperance .
will you cover, then, sir?
let me go .
of that i shall have also cause to speak, and from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
what bastard doth not ?
out of my sight!
general ,  be advised ,  he comes to bad intent .
his eyes were set at eight i' the morning .
o lord ,  my lord ,  if they were but a week married ,  they would talk themselves mad .
how shall we find the concord of this discord?
in which addition ,  hail ,  most worthy thane ,  for it is thine .
thy thoughts i cleave to .
portia is dead .
read it, great caesar.
my uncle!
look to her ,  moor ,  if thou hast eyes to see .
go to !
you break jests as braggarts do their blades ,  which ,  god be thanked ,  hurt not . —my lord ,  for your many courtesies i thank you .
he is in heaven ,  where thou shalt never come .
he says ,  my lord ,  your daughter is not well .
ay ,  ay ,  the cords .
antonio ,  as i heard in genoa , — what ,  what ,  what ?
no more than i am well acquitted of.
but have i fall'n ,  or no ?
good faith ,  and when i met this holy man ,  the men you talk of came into my mind .
i cannot hear of any that did see her .
know i these men that come along with you?
no ,  faith ,  my coz ,  wish not a man from england .
though their injunction be to bar my doors and let this tyrannous night take hold upon you ,  yet have i ventured to come seek you out and bring you where both fire and food is ready .
no ,  let's come in !
it were ,  my lord ,  a hard condition for a maid to consign to .
i cannot hide what i am .
wherefore speaks he this to her he hates ?
another general shout!
hear me a word ,  for i shall never speak to thee again .
tis bitter cold ,  and i am sick at heart .
a kind good night to all !
let me go.
snout, the tinker!
let us die .
o me!
stanley ,  what news with you ?
say ,  voltimand ,  what from our brother norway ?
ebbing men ,  indeed ,  most often do so near the bottom run by their own fear or sloth .
if he steal aught the whilst this play is playing, and 'scape detecting, i will pay the theft.
against my will ,  i am sent to bid you come in to dinner .
behold and see .
o woe!
go ,  make money .
know you any ,  count ?
meantime i writ to romeo ,  that he should hither come as this dire night ,  to help to take her from her borrowed grave ,  being the time the potion’s force should cease .
where america ,  the indies ?
if you can look into the seeds of time ,  and say which grain will grow and which will not ,  speak then to me ,  who neither beg nor fear your favors nor your hate .
not so happy, yet much happier.
therefore ,  since brevity is the soul of wit and tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes ,  i will be brief: your noble son is mad .
a calendar, a calendar!
a fair woman!
thanks ,  you the valiant of this warlike isle ,  that so approve the moor !
where be these bloody thieves ?
go with me to bless this twain ,  that they may prospus be and honoured in their issue .
but now they rise again with twenty mortal murders on their crowns and push us from our stools .
i am glad of it .
yet this is your harmless fairy ,  monster .
nay, i do bear a brain.
now mercury endue thee with leasing ,  for thou speakest well of fools !
we'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart .
in this ,  though i cannot be said to be a flattering honest man ,  it must not be denied but i am a plain - dealing villain .
till then ,  adieu ,  and keep this holy kiss .
observe her; stand close .
my love !
sit ,  worthy friends .
why ,  i am glad on't .
come hither, man.
upon my sword .
silence bestows that virtue on it ,  madam .
o villainy !
i’ll join with black despair against my soul and to myself become an enemy .
here comes the herald of the french ,  my liege .
tis dangerous when the baser nature comes between the pass and fell incensed points of mighty opposites .
thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
o ,  would to god that the inclusive verge of golden metal that must round my brow were red - hot steel to sear me to the brains !
frailty ,  thy name is woman— a little month ,  or ere those shoes were old with which she follow'd my poor father's body like niobe ,  all tears—why she ,  even she— o god !
of that there’s none ,  or little .
ay ,  my lord .
let the doors be shut upon him ,  that he may play the fool nowhere but in's own house .
but ,  in good sooth ,  are you he that hangs the verses on the trees wherein rosalind is so admired ?
and you must cut this flesh from off his breast .
have i not reason, beldams as you are, saucy and overbold?
stones have been known to move ,  and trees to speak .
therefore, good brutus, be prepared to hear, and since you know you cannot see yourself so well as by reflection, i your glass will modestly discover to yourself that of yourself which you yet know not of.
thou drivest me past the bounds of maiden's patience .
be not too late .
for your desire to know what is between us o'ermaster't as you may .
yet caesar shall go forth ,  for these predictions are to the world in general as to caesar .
ay, caesar, but not gone.
your crown’s awry .
what ,  with worms and flies ?
we have not spoke us yet of torchbearers .
i have ,  when you have heard what i can say .
i shall.
hie, make haste, make haste!
lend me a garter.
what is amiss ?
zounds ,  who is there ?
most necessary 'tis that we forget to pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
she dying gave it me, and bid me, when my fate would have me wive, to give it her.
let us on heaps go offer up our lives .
how 'gree you now ?
forbear this outrage !
give me my robe ,  for i will go .
o illegitimate construction !
what can be avoided whose end is purposed by the mighty gods ?
barren my wit ?
no eyes in your head ,  nor no money in your purse ?
but it becomes me well enough ,  does ’t not ?
i humbly beseech you ,  proceed to th' affairs of state .
faith ,  we met and found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause .
fie upon thee !
ay ,  on mine honour .
look you ,  sad friends ,  the gods rebuke me ,  but it is tidings to wash the eyes of kings .
well, i am standing water.
how should that be ?
then ,  with your will ,  go on .
who's there?
i tell you ,  captain ,  if you look in the maps of the 'orld ,  i warrant you shall find ,  in the comparisons between macedon and monmouth ,  that the situations ,  look you ,  is both alike .
what news ,  my lord ?
lend me thy handkerchief .
well then ,  take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man .
give him heedful note; for i mine eyes will rivet to his face ,  and after we will both our judgments join in censure of his seeming .
alas ,  what danger will it be to us ,  maids as we are ,  to travel forth so far ?
play with your fancies and in them behold ,  upon the hempen tackle ,  shipboys climbing .
i know not ,  madam .
he that commends me to mine own content commends me to the thing i cannot get .
go back again and be new beaten home ?
thou dost belie her ,  and thou art a devil .
but swords i smile at ,  weapons laugh to scorn ,  brandished by man that’s of a woman born .
good your grace ,  pardon me .
ay, on the front.
never so weary ,  never so in woe ,  bedabbled with the dew ,  and torn with briers ,  i can no further crawl ,  no further go; my legs can keep no pace with my desires .
that's not my meaning; but breathe his faults so quaintly that they may seem the taints of liberty, the flash and outbreak of a fiery mind, a savageness in unreclaimed blood, of general assault.
of anything the image tell me that hath kept with thy remembrance .
they say this town is full of cozenage ,  as nimble jugglers that deceive the eye ,  dark - working sorcerers that change the mind ,  soul - killing witches that deform the body ,  disguised cheaters ,  prating mountebanks ,  and many suchlike liberties of sin .
we cannot all be masters ,  nor all masters cannot be truly followed .
you may gather more .
and she is exceeding wise .
o ,  there be players that i have seen play ,  and heard others praise ,  and that highly ,  not to speak it profanely ,  that ,  neither having the accent of christians ,  nor the gait of christian ,  pagan ,  nor man ,  have so strutted and bellowed that i have thought some of nature's journeymen had made men ,  and not made them well ,  they imitated humanity so abominably .
i long to hear the story of your life ,  which must take the ear strangely .
wrench his sword from him .
hath it slept since ?
o cassius ,  far from this country pindarus shall run ,  where never roman shall take note of him .
what’s your name ,  friend ?
what form?
uninhabitable, and almost inaccessible— [to antonio] yet— [to antonio] yet— yet— [to sebastian] he could not miss't.
is't possible?
welcome ,  wanderer .
most radiant ,  exquisite and unmatchable beauty—i pray you ,  tell me if this be the lady of the house ,  for i never saw her .
she says enough ,  yet she’s a simple bawd that cannot say as much .
why ,  farewell ,  portia .
then do but say to me what i should do ,  that in your knowledge may by me be done ,  and i am prest unto it: therefore speak .
your servants tend .
i believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes to rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead.
chill pick your teeth ,  zir .
where is lysander and fair hermia?
what's here ?
and sowing the kernels of it in the sea ,  bring forth more islands .
villainous whore!
that handkerchief which i so loved and gave thee ,  thou gav’st to cassio .
grant that, and then is death a benefit; so are we caesar's friends that have abridged his time of fearing death.
my name's macbeth .
no ,  indeed ,  my lord .
a sail ,  a sail ,  a sail !
think of me as you please .
i will hear brutus speak.
we coursed him at the heels and had a purpose to be his purveyor; but he rides well ,  and his great love ,  sharp as his spur ,  hath holp him to his home before us .
bid him levy straight the greatest strength and power that he can make and meet me suddenly at salisbury .
how like a younger ,  or a prodigal ,  the scarfed bark puts from her native bay ,  hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind !
i have lost my hopes .
with all my heart ,  sir .
o woeful day !
or does he walk ?
how goes the world with thee ?
i cannot tell.
i will hear cassius and compare their reasons ,  when severally we hear them rendered .
yes ,  i intend so .
the king's a-bed.
what else ,  fellow ?
i will ,  and know her mind early tomorrow .
when we our betters see bearing our woes ,  we scarcely think our miseries our foes .
here .
ho ,  guildenstern !
sweet, so would i.
therefore ,  have done .
who can control his fate ?
a pox o' your bottle !
what say you then to falconbridge ,  the young baron of england ?
you are pictures out of door ,  bells in your parlors ,  wild - cats in your kitchens ,  saints in your injuries ,  devils being offended ,  players in your housewifery ,  and housewives in your beds .
foolish curs ,  that run winking into the mouth of a russian bear and have their heads crushed like rotten apples .
since this fortune falls to you ,  be content ,  and seek no new .
what's he that follows there, that would not dance?
my reputation, iago, my reputation!
one word ,  sir .
by heaven, i'll know thy thoughts.
now art thou my lieutenant .
he attends here in the forest on the duke your father .
you .
a carrion death ,  within whose empty eye there is a written scroll ?
hark !
caesar .
i'll make you quiet; what!—cheerly, my hearts!
the law!
do not swear at all .
in second husband let me be accurst!
with him?
my boon i make it that you know me not till time and i think meet .
thus hath the candle sing'd the moth .
with him ?
for if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog ,  being a good kissing carrion—have you a daughter ?
we say the king is wise and virtuous ,  and his noble queen well struck in years ,  fair ,  and not jealous .
my spirits ,  as in a dream ,  are all bound up .
the more fool you for laying on my duty .
my lord ,  my lord !
o hamlet ,  thou hast cleft my heart in twain .
none, but a holy hermit, and her maid.
worthy macbeth ,  we stay upon your leisure .
nay ,  that's certain .
and what’s he then that says i play the villain ?
in venice they do let god see the pranks they dare not show their husbands .
are you crept hither to see the wrestling ?
for god’s sake ,  hold your hands .
this prophecy merlin shall make ,  for i live before his time .
let’s alone ,  and do the murder first .
throw physic to the dogs, i'll none of it.
love's heralds should be thoughts ,  which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams driving back shadows over low'ring hills .
you shall close prisoner rest till that the nature of your fault be known to the venetian state . —come ,  bring him away .
thou art too like the spirit of banquo .
intend a kind of zeal both to the prince and claudio ,  as in love of your brother’s honor ,  who hath made this match ,  and his friend’s reputation ,  who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid ,  that you have discovered thus .
the near in blood ,  the nearer bloody .
i’ll see no more .
and so adieu ,  good madam .
i' faith ,  i am sorry that thou art not well .
conclude ,  conclude ,  he is in love .
thus bad begins and worse remains behind .
my mother .
i pray thee give it me.
i am satisfied in nature ,  whose motive in this case should stir me most to my revenge .
that’s all .
he is a very proper man .
wherefore was i to this keen mockery born ?
why ,  the enemy is loud .
the instances that second marriage move are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
the sound is going away .
a soothsayer bids you beware the ides of march.
thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea; neither have i money, nor commodity to raise a present sum: therefore go forth, try what my credit can in venice do; that shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost, to furnish thee to belmont, to fair portia.
is thy master stirring ?
strives in his little world of man to outscorn the to - and - fro–conflicting wind and rain .
shall we to the court ?
he hath every month a new sworn brother .
o, be thou damn'd, inexecrable dog!
come ,  sit on me .
anon, as patient as the female dove when that her golden couplets are disclosed, his silence will sit drooping.
well; tell me now ,  what lady is the same to whom you swore a secret pilgrimage ,  that you to - day promis'd to tell me of ?
go you and tell my daughter i would speak with her .
let each man render me his bloody hand.
death is my heir .
are we cuckolds ,  ere we have deserv'd it ?
thursday is near .
i but believe it partly ,  for i am fresh of spirit and resolved to meet all perils very constantly .
i stay too long.
right glad i am he was not at this fray .
ink and paper ,  charmian .
as shafalus to procrus, i to you.
ay ,  while you live ,  draw your neck out of the collar .
madam ,  do you .
i am none of his flirt - gills .
once more unto the breach ,  dear friends ,  once more ,  or close the wall up with our english dead !
go not my horse the better ,  i must become a borrower of the night for a dark hour or twain .
then forth ,  dear countrymen .
god's bodykins, man, much better!
yours ,  if you talk of tales .
i like him not ,  nor stands it safe with us to let his madness range .
that ever holds: who riseth from a feast with that keen appetite that he sits down ?
what is the matter there?
stay with us .
refuse not ,  mighty lord ,  this proffered love .
being done unknown ,  i should have found it afterwards well done ,  but must condemn it now .
i am afraid he will chastise me .
ay ,  if a woman live to be a man .
tis time to look about .
nothing.
he is the brooch indeed and gem of all the nation .
kind sister ,  thanks .
dost thou lie so low ?
shall i do that which all the parthian darts ,  though enemy ,  lost aim and could not ?
i am glad on't; i desire no more delight, than to be under sail and gone to-night.
tybalt, mercutio, the prince expressly hath forbid this bandying in verona streets.
and have you mercy too !
speak ,  i’ll go no further .
where have you hid yourself ?
there is siward's son and many unrough youths, that even now protest their first of manhood.
i commend my duty to your lordship .
a truant disposition ,  good my lord .
well ,  all’s one for that .
let it be so .
i’ll come to him .
alas ,  poor yorick !
who has a breast so pure, but some uncleanly apprehensions keep leets and lawdays, and in session sit with meditations lawful?
honest, my lord?
will you sup with me tonight, casca?
now ,  if thou wert a poet ,  i might have some hope thou didst feign .
let him do his spite .
touch her soft mouth ,  and march .
is decius brutus and trebonius there?
he bears him like a portly gentleman, and, to say truth, verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth.
no; you will reveal it.
tis strange ,  my theseus ,  that these lovers speak of .
let not thy discreet heart think it .
tis pity of him.
o most lame and impotent conclusion !
push home .
good cheer ,  antonio !
why ,  that’s spoken like an honest drover; so they sell bullocks .
hugh capet also ,  who usurped the crown of charles the duke of lorraine ,  sole heir male of the true line and stock of charles the great ,  to find his title with some shows of truth ,  though in pure truth it was corrupt and naught ,  conveyed himself as th' heir to th' lady lingare ,  daughter to charlemagne ,  who was the son to lewis the emperor ,  and lewis the son of charles the great .
twere to consider too curiously ,  to consider so .
he bears too great a mind .
who is next?
my lord .
weeping and wailing over tybalt’s corse .
if thou canst cuckold him ,  thou dost thyself a pleasure ,  me a sport .
utter my thoughts ?
well, keep me company but two years more, thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
nay, that follows not.
fly ,  my lord ,  fly .
beat them down !
my lord ?
mend the instance ,  shepherd .
lysander riddles very prettily.
for this reason ,  if you’ll know: that she’s the choice love of signior gremio .
where's satisfaction?
hear the ambassadors .
and let her speak of me before her father .
what men have you lost ,  fluellen ?
why have you left the chamber ?
tell me ,  heavenly bow ,  if venus or her son ,  as thou dost know ,  do now attend the queen .
and he’s gone .
there is your money that i had to keep .
ah sir !
hamlet !
my lord, my lord!
some haste ,  my lord !
what sum owes he the jew ?
why, jessica!
ay ,  madam .
enough .
what said popilius lena?
when could they say till now that talk'd of rome that her wide walls encompass'd but one man?
i have marked a thousand blushing apparitions to start into her face ,  a thousand innocent shames in angel whiteness beat away those blushes ,  and in her eye there hath appeared a fire to burn the errors that these princes hold against her maiden truth .
what ill request did brutus make to thee?
say you?
so help me every spirit sanctified ,  as i have spoken for you all my best and stood within the blank of his displeasure for my free speech !
are you acquainted with the difference that holds this present question in the court ?
with this strange virtue he hath a heavenly gift of prophecy, and sundry blessings hang about his throne that speak him full of grace.
nay, good lieutenant; i pray you, sir, hold your hand.
what is thy name ?
who brought it ?
a thing for me?
which is he that killed the deer ?
the more i love ,  the more he hateth me .
no ,  nothing but ourselves .
a sail, a sail, a sail!
what's your will?
and look thou meet me ere the first cock crow .
in which predicament ,  i say ,  thou stand'st: for it appears by manifest proceeding ,  that ,  indirectly ,  and directly too ,  thou hast contriv'd against the very life of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd the danger formerly by me rehears'd .
i am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable; for there is not one among them but i dote on his very absence, and i pray god grant them a fair departure.
stephano !
what think you of the scottish lord ,  his neighbour ?
have you sent to bottom's house ?
you have my consent .
this ring ,  good sir—alas ,  it is a trifle .
we’ll go along together ,  and ere we have thy youthful wages spent ,  we’ll light upon some settled low content .
mark antony, here, take you caesar's body.
there's something in his soul o'er which his melancholy sits on brood; and i do doubt the hatch and the disclose will be some danger; which for to prevent ,  i have in quick determination thus set it down: he shall with speed to england for the demand of our neglected tribute .
imperious caesar ,  dead and turn'd to clay ,  might stop a hole to keep the wind away .
but ,  alas the while !
tis time i should inform thee farther .
will you sup there ?
what news ?
i know a lady in venice would have walked barefoot to palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
hence, bashful cunning!
o antony ,  beg not your death of us !
here's another, more potent than the first.
what ,  my old worshipful old master ?
think’st thou i jest ?
brutus, thou sleep'st: awake and see thyself!
i understand not what you mean by this .
pray you now ,  forget and forgive .
murder most foul ,  as in the best it is .
go and commend me to my brother cassius .
i am as i have spoken.
heaven bless the isle of cyprus and our noble general othello!
hark how our steeds for present service neigh .
ariel sings in gonzalo's ear] [ariel sings in gonzalo's ear] while you here do snoring lie ,  open - eyed conspiracy his time doth take .
aside] why speaks my father so urgently ?
and pity to the general wrong of rome— as fire drives out fire ,  so pity pity— hath done this deed on caesar .
set on, and leave no ceremony out.
and me too ,  good lord !
peace ,  grumio .
wonder not till further warrant .
wife ,  children ,  servants ,  all that could be found .
can anything be made of this ?
think ,  my lord ?
here is more of us!
hear it not ,  duncan ,  for it is a knell that summons thee to heaven ,  or to hell .
one woe doth tread upon another's heel ,  so fast they follow .
i know his gait; 'tis he.
the devil damn thee black ,  thou cream - faced loon !
do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical ?
beat them down !
i say my prayers aloud .
thou art to die .
then is he more beholding to you than i .
my blessing season this in thee!
when in your motion you are hot and dry— as make your bouts more violent to that end— and that he calls for drink ,  i'll have prepared him a chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping ,  if he by chance escape your venom'd stuck ,  our purpose may hold there .
now ,  balthazar ,  as i have ever found thee honest true ,  so let me find thee still .
o that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill !
what ,  my lord ?
please you, farther.
behold ,  there stand the caskets ,  noble prince; if you choose that wherein i am contain'd ,  straight shall our nuptial rites be solemniz'd; but if you fail ,  without more speech ,  my lord ,  you must be gone from hence immediately .
help me into some house, benvolio, or i shall faint.
is ’t frailty that thus errs ?
hang up thy mistress !
a right fair mark ,  fair coz ,  is soonest hit .
ay me ,  detested !
by your leave ,  hostess .
thus must i from the smoke into the smother ,  from tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother .
i have forgot why i did call thee back .
say you have wronged her ,  sir .
nor will do none tomorrow .
othello!
press near and second him .
the tyrant has not batter'd at their peace ?
this is a knavery of them to make me afeard .
too old to be engag'd to young .
lepidus is high - colored .
thou art on thy deathbed .
i do not know .
master ,  you looked so longly on the maid ,  perhaps you marked not what’s the pith of all .
too familiar is my dear son with such sour company .
this fellow might be in's time a great buyer of land ,  with his statutes ,  his recognizances ,  his fines ,  his double vouchers ,  his recoveries .
i like the work well.
i could be sad .
his means of death ,  his obscure burial— no trophy ,  sword ,  nor hatchment o'er his bones ,  no noble rite nor formal ostentation ,  cry to be heard ,  as 'twere from heaven to earth ,  that i must call't in question .
how like a fawning publican he looks !
o wicked wall, through whom i see no bliss, curs'd he thy stones for thus deceiving me!
i’ll court his favors .
there shalt thou find my cousin beatrice proposing with the prince and claudio .
good morrow ,  good lieutenant .
do not fret yourself too much in the action ,  monsieur .
hear you the news abroad ?
o most bloody sight!
pray you ,  tell him i am his fortune’s vassal ,  and i send him the greatness he has got .
demetrius thinks not so; he will not know what all but he do know .
so well thy words become thee as thy wounds; they smack of honor both .
rise ,  and lend thine ear .
done to death by slanderous tongues was the hero that here lies .
what, pindarus!
is't true?
stay and speak !
it is the cry of women ,  my good lord .
i never hurt you .
i do not know what  “ poetical ”  is .
o ,  one too much by thee !
dromio—thou ,  dromio—thou snail ,  thou slug ,  thou sot .
look, look, titinius: are those my tents where i perceive the fire?
and ,  honest company ,  i thank you all ,  that have beheld me give away myself to this most patient ,  sweet and virtuous wife .
haply the seas and countries different with variable objects shall expel this something - settled matter in his heart ,  whereon his brains still beating puts him thus from fashion of himself .
some word there was ,  worser than tybalt's death ,  that murdered me .
i'll about ,  and drive away the vulgar from the streets; so do you too ,  where you perceive them thick .
metellus cimber ?
come, give us a taste of your quality.
if you dare fight today ,  come to the field .
no ,  sir ,  she shall not ,  though you take her part .
why ,  so i can ,  sir ,  but i will not now .
he has no more directions in the true disciplines of the wars ,  look you ,  of the roman disciplines ,  than is a puppy dog .
i am too sore enpierced with his shaft to soar with his light feathers; and so bound i cannot bound a pitch above dull woe .
if then true lovers have been ever crossed ,  it stands as an edict in destiny .
impudent strumpet !
perchance, iago, i will ne'er go home.
i will ,  my liege .
ay ,  if a woman live to be a man .
if i myself ,  there is no hour so fit as caesar's death's hour ,  nor no instrument of half that worth as those your swords ,  made rich with the most noble blood of all this world .
i hope she will be brief .
we are men ,  my liege .
let me go ,  i say .
are we turn'd turks ,  and to ourselves do that which heaven hath forbid the ottomites ?
we'll mutiny.
if that same demon that hath gulled thee thus should with his lion gait walk the whole world ,  he might return to vasty tartar back and tell the legions  “ i can never win a soul so easy as that englishman’s .  ”  oh ,  how hast thou with jealousy infected the sweetness of affiance !
what ,  dares the slave come hither ,  cover'd with an antic face ,  to fleer and scorn at our solemnity ?
you lack the season of all natures ,  sleep .
an you lie ,  sirrah ,  we’ll have you whipped .
i do .
if it be so ,  as ’tis ,  poor lady ,  she were better love a dream .
thy mother was a piece of virtue and she said thou wast my daughter .
this is a sleepy tune .
was i with you there for the goose?
drink thou .
and i serve the fairy queen  to dew her orbs upon the green .
good night.
i have an interest in your hate's proceeding, my blood for your rude brawls doth lie ableeding; but i'll amerce you with so strong a fine that you shall all repent the loss of mine.
foh !
i think so too.
methought i lay worse than the mutines in the bilboes .
i come to fetch you to the senate house .
but no more sights ! —where are these gentlemen ?
her eye discourses .
i am not valiant neither, but every puny whipster gets my sword.
she’s gone forever .
for besides these beneficial news ,  it is the celebration of his nuptial .
i do .
o ,  what a rogue and peasant slave am i !
far off methinks i hear the beaten drum .
you lie .
dear my lord ,  make me acquainted with your cause of grief .
o brave touch !
you are now within a foot of th' extreme verge .
i’ll yield him thee asleep ,  where thou mayst knock a nail into his head .
thus has he—and many more of the same bevy that i know the drossy age dotes on—only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter ,  a kind of yesty collection ,  which carries them through and through the most fanned and winnowed opinions; and do but blow them to their trial ,  the bubbles are out .
you speak all your part at once, cues, and all.
for it is a figure in rhetoric that drink ,  being poured out of a cup into a glass ,  by filling the one doth empty the other .
behold, there stand the caskets, noble prince; if you choose that wherein i am contain'd, straight shall our nuptial rites be solemniz'd; but if you fail, without more speech, my lord, you must be gone from hence immediately.
romeo ,  there dead ,  was husband to that juliet; and she ,  there dead ,  that romeo's faithful wife .
hark ,  canst thou hear me ?
for every thing is seal'd and done that else leans on the affair.
nay ,  i’ll go with thee ,  cheek by jowl .
thanks for your pains .
slanders ,  sir .
it hangs like flax on a distaff .
regan ,  i have good hope thou didst not know on ’t . —who comes here ?
iago hath direction what to do; but notwithstanding ,  with my personal eye will i look to't .
there lies your love.
she is stirring ,  sir .
carry this mad knave to the jail . —father baptista ,  i charge you see that he be forthcoming .
the less they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
come hither ,  good volumnius ,  list a word .
some man or other must present wall; and let him have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny shall pyramus and thisbe whisper.
my charms crack not ,  my spirits obey ,  and time goes upright with his carriage .
put out the light, and then put out the light.
what is a traitor ?
if it be mine ,  keep it not from me .
since thou dost give me pains let me remember thee what thou hast promised, which is not yet performed me.
ay ,  my good lord .
i wish him joy of her .
you fools !
and thy father was duke of milan ,  and thou his only heir and princess no worse issued .
trow you whither i am going ?
resolve yourselves apart: i'll come to you anon.
the man is innocent .
madam ,  i wish it may .
to adrian] ay.
this did i fear ,  but thought he had no weapon; for he was great of heart .
how goes it with my brave mark antony ?
hast thou not dropped from heaven ?
i perceive these lords at this encounter do so much admire that they devour their reason and scarce think their eyes do offices of truth ,  these words are natural breath .
what may this mean that thou ,  dead corse ,  again ,  in complete steel ,  revisits thus the glimpses of the moon ,  making night hideous ,  and we fools of nature so horridly to shake our disposition with thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls ?
if sir toby would leave drinking ,  thou wert as witty a piece of eve’s flesh as any in illyria .
i’ll prove mine honor and mine honesty against thee presently if thou dar’st stand .
but if the gods themselves did see her then ,  when she saw pyrrhus make malicious sport in mincing with his sword her husband's limbs ,  the instant burst of clamour that she made unless things mortal move them not at all would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven and passion in the gods .
a knave teach me my duty!
not sad ,  my lord .
his words were ,  farewell mistress; nothing else .
the more i love, the more he hateth me.
the cess of majesty dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw what's near it with it.
god hold it ,  to your honor’s good content !
fie ,  fie upon thee ,  strumpet !
why ,  that’s my dainty ariel .
they laugh that win.
farewell, for i must leave you.
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if 'were cain's jawbone, that did the first murder!
did not you hear a cry?
what’s thy pleasure ?
death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath, hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.
for this slave ,  if there be any cunning cruelty that can torment him much and hold him long ,  it shall be his .
let each man render me his bloody hand .
tis so; and that self chain about his neck which he forswore most monstrously to have .
o ,  he lights too .
i’ll show thee the best springs .
in what part of her body stands ireland ?
not a word of me .
we must incline to the king .
i should not need ,  if you were gentle brutus .
a good and virtuous nature may recoil in an imperial charge .
you have dancing shoes with nimble soles .
that i can keep your counsel, and not mine own.
nor none that live ,  i hope .
this lion is a very fox for his valour.
this health to lepidus !
to sebastian] true ,  of that there's none ,  or little .
thus it remains ,  and the remainder thus .
to trinculo] stand farther.
will you pluck your sword out of his pilcher by the ears ?
here ,  my lord .
i think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties .
cassio’s a proper man .
it cannot be but thou hast murder'd him; so should a murderer look ,  so dead ,  so grim .
if any such there be ,  heaven pardon him !
then how can it be said i am alone when all the world is here to look on me ?
as i !
where dost thou hide thy head ?
you more invest it !
awake ,  awake !
one knocks .
not proud you have ,  but thankful that you have .
in each thing give him way .
i sent you money ,  sir ,  to be your bail by dromio ,  but i think he brought it not .
rather your eyes must with his judgment look .
do not say so, lysander; say not so.
tell him, so please him come unto this place, he shall be satisfied and, by my honor, depart untouch'd.
is love a tender thing ?
find the girl!
go on; i'll follow thee.
have you not read, roderigo, of some such thing?
this is a sorry sight .
this not to do ,  so grace and mercy at your most need help you ,  swear .
come you to make confession to this father?
how now, horatio?
hum !
forbear this outrage!
her eye must be fed; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil ?
lead ,  monster; we’ll follow .
but speak ,  egeus .
i will look on it.
therefore should every soldier in the wars do as every sick man in his bed: wash every mote out of his conscience .
here comes the emperor .
go in; and tell my lady i am gone ,  having displeas'd my father ,  to laurence’ cell ,  to make confession and to be absolv'd .
he holds me well; the better shall my purpose work on him .
chill not let go ,  zir ,  without vurther 'casion .
pray you ,  look in .
but fear not yet to take upon you what is yours .
here in her hairs, the painter plays the spider; and hath woven a golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men, faster than gnats in cobwebs: but her eyes,— how could he see to do them?
it becomes the thronèd monarch better than his crown .
tis her command .
these tedious old fools!
tis well thou art not fish .
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses .
what a night’s this !
away !
lepidus flatters both ,  of both is flattered ,  but he neither loves ,  nor either cares for him .
give me thy hand .
confess yourself freely to her; importune her help to put you in your place again .
do you hear ?
could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
no offense i' th' world .
there lies that tybalt .
your name ,  i pray you ,  friend ?
go not my horse the better ,  i must become a borrower of the night for a dark hour or twain .
i pray thee ,  give it me .
no ,  some of it is for my child’s father .
nay ,  an i tell you that ,  i’ll ne'er look you i' th' face again .
but if thou, jealous, dost return to pry in what i further shall intend to do, by heaven, i will tear thee joint by joint and strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs.
should not upbraid our course .
that's one of them.
twas of some estate .
i spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack.
that pure congealed white ,  high taurus' snow ,  fann'd with the eastern wind ,  turns to a crow when thou hold'st up thy hand .
is that the law?
o traitors ,  villains !
i will read it . — how much unlike art thou to portia !
scurvy knave !
call the slave again .
heaven knows what she has known .
i with the morning’s love have oft made sport ,  and like a forester the groves may tread even till the eastern gate ,  all fiery red ,  opening on neptune with fair blessèd beams ,  turns into yellow gold his salt green streams .
how fares my gracious sir ?
i leave my duty a little unthought of and speak out of my injury .
o conspiracy ,  shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night ,  when evils are most free ?
to bait fish withal .
and so the lion vanished.
good e'en ,  good e'en .
go ,  biondello ,  bid your mistress come to me .
o god !
tybalt, the reason that i have to love thee doth much excuse the appertaining rage to such a greeting.
why ,  what wouldst thou do there before i go ?
for if but once thou show me thy grey light ,  i'll find demetrius ,  and revenge this spite .
a brave vessel who had ,  no doubt ,  some noble creature in her dashed all to pieces .
and find i am alone felicitate in your dear highness' love .
brother ,  my lord the duke ,  stand to and do as we .
a lioness hath whelped in the streets; and graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead; fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds, in ranks and squadrons and right form of war, which drizzled blood upon the capitol; the noise of battle hurtled in the air, horses did neigh and dying men did groan, and ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.
i shall be pinched to death .
that may be ,  sir ,  when i may be a wife .
so romeo would, were he not romeo call'd, retain that dear perfection which he owes without that title.
the king and queen and all are coming down .
o sinful thought!
to all and him we thirst, and all to all.
wherefore do you come ?
if till the expiration of your month ,  you will return and sojourn with my sister ,  dismissing half your train ,  come then to me .
i trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
when he came to himself again ,  he said ,  if he had done or said any thing amiss ,  he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity .
come in ,  tailor; here you may roast your goose .
to the mines ?
dead .
wilt thou at ninny’s tomb meet me straightway ?
here comes his body, mourned by mark antony, who, though he had no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a place in the commonwealth, as which of you shall not?
let's meet him and receive him .
turn, hell hound, turn!
hark, hark, one knocks.
o ,  the recorders !
i will speak to this fellow.
thrice noble lord ,  let me entreat of you to pardon me yet for a night or two ,  or if not so ,  until the sun be set .
forth ,  my sword; he dies .
my pretty cousin ,  blessing upon you !
but we are spirits of another sort .
but why unkindly didst thou leave me so ?
retire thee; go where thou art billeted: away ,  i say .
how came that widow in?
i will do so .
my father's spirit in arms !
what think you of the scottish lord ,  his neighbor ?
indeed, this counsellor is now most still, most secret, and most grave, who was in life a foolish prating knave.
dost thou think i care for a satire or an epigram ?
he ,  for his father’s sake ,  so loves the prince that he will not be won to aught against him .
if 'twere no other— 'tis but so, i warrant.
for fear of that i still will stay with thee and never from this palace of dim night depart again .
being holiday ,  the beggar's shop is shut .
if i stand here ,  i saw him .
o thou ,  whose captain i account myself ,  look on my forces with a gracious eye .
ay ,  marry ,  are they ,  sir .
no more!
and why, my lady wisdom?
he is already named and gone to scone to be invested .
never king of england had nobles richer ,  and more loyal subjects ,  whose hearts have left their bodies here in england and lie pavilioned in the fields of france .
thisbe!
you ,  nick bottom ,  are set down for pyramus .
you told a lie ,  an odious ,  damnèd lie .
i have o'ershot myself to tell you of it.
thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts ,  having no other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes .
thou chid'st me oft for loving rosaline.
thou hast described a hot friend cooling .
my cousin means signor benedick of padua .
look ,  how he laughs already !
all's well now ,  sweeting; come away to bed .
my lord ,  here stays without ,  a messenger with letters from the doctor ,  new come from padua .
five hundred poor i have in yearly pay ,  who twice a day their withered hands hold up toward heaven to pardon blood .
they met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together .
romeo !
now are we well prepared to know the pleasure of our fair cousin dauphin ,  for we hear your greeting is from him ,  not from the king .
god ye good morrow, gentlemen.
do ,  do .
sweet gertrude, leave us too; for we have closely sent for hamlet hither, that he, as 'twere by accident, may here affront ophelia.
bind fast his corky arms .
shall i deny you ?
how will you live ?
i am dying ,  egypt ,  dying .
how is it that the clouds still hang on you?
he’s not thy kinsman .
i have, my lord.
send him but hither and i’ll fashion him .
what would you undertake to show yourself your father's son in deed more than in words?
what counterfeit did i give you ?
the ottomites, reverend and gracious, steering with due course toward the isle of rhodes, have there injointed them with an after fleet.
no ,  my most wrongèd sister .
what i should think of this i cannot tell ,  but this i think: there’s no man is so vain that would refuse so fair an offered chain .
her dotage now i do begin to pity .
where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me ?
why ,  as a woodcock to mine own springe ,  osric .
oh ,  i am slain !
lover!
bounteous madam, whatever shall become of michael cassio, he's never anything but your true servant.
i have a venturous fairy that shall seek the squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts.
when he is gone, i would on great occasion speak with you.
i prithee let me have it .
ay, but not yet to die.
with all my heart .
how canst thou thus, for shame, titania, glance at my credit with hippolyta, knowing i know thy love to theseus?
i will frown as i pass by, and let them take it as they list.
and what of him ?
remember me .
i stand here for law .
virtue ?
you will not then ?
now ,  eros .
but first i will release the fairy queen .
go ,  girl ,  seek happy nights to happy days .
he were no lion were not romans hinds .
come, go with me; peruse this as thou goest: fair jessica shall be my torchbearer.
to lend me arms and aid when i required them ,  the which you both denied .
peaseblossom.
sit down and rest .
the county will be here with music straight ,  for so he said he would .
seal then ,  and all is done . — eros ! —i come ,  my queen . —eros ! —stay for me .
god be wi' you.
by janus ,  i think no .
some tender money to me; some invite me; some other give me thanks for kindnesses; some offer me commodities to buy .
this week he hath been heavy ,  sour ,  sad ,  and much different from the man he was .
noting this penury ,  to myself i said ,  ‘an if a man did need a poison now whose sale is present death in mantua ,  here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him . ’ o ,  this same thought did but forerun my need ,  and this same needy man must sell it me .
i beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give.
what meanest thou by that ,  malvolio ?
and ,  sir ,  tonight i do entreat that we may sup together .
i shall answer that better to the commonwealth, than you can the getting up of the negro's belly; the moor is with child by you, launcelot.
look how it steals away !
tis meet i should be used so ,  very meet .
fear not, till birnam wood do come to dunsinane,” and now a wood comes toward dunsinane.
i think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
for the law of writ and the liberty, these are the only men.
he is the only man of italy ,  always excepted my dear claudio .
if thou more murmur’st ,  i will rend an oak and peg thee in his knotty entrails till thou hast howled away twelve winters .
you are my true and honorable wife, as dear to me as are the ruddy drops that visit my sad heart.
tis strange .
is it not monstrous that this player here, but in a fiction, in a dream of passion, could force his soul so to his own conceit that from her working all his visage wann'd, tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect, a broken voice, and his whole function suiting with forms to his conceit?
alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night!
no ,  i am promised forth .
for learn this ,  silius: better to leave undone than by our deed acquire too high a fame when him we serve’s away .
and what to ?
who is here so base that would be a bondman?
yours ,  yours .
most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope the lord's anointed temple and stole thence the life o’ the building.
o damn'd iago !
die when thou hast lived .
give us kind keepers ,  heavens !
you are very welcome ,  sir .
who is't that hinders you?
by such despair i should accuse myself .
your name, sir, truly.
ay ,  and a bold one ,  that dare look on that which might appall the devil .
something we will determine .
o scotland, scotland!
but this same cassio, though he speak of comfort touching the turkish loss, yet he looks sadly and prays the moor be safe; for they were parted with foul and violent tempest.
thou must know ,  ’tis not my profit that does lead mine honor; mine honor ,  it .
but what say you to thursday ?
come ,  gentlemen ,  let us consult upon tomorrow’s business into my tent .
but one fiend at a time ,  i'll fight their legions o'er .
i speak not yet of proof .
go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
i am so .
her husband ,  sirrah ?
i’ll ask them .
my mother had a maid call'd barbara; she was in love ,  and he she loved proved mad and did forsake her .
let me not burst in ignorance, but tell why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death, have burst their cerements, why the sepulchre wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd, hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws to cast thee up again.
i never knew a florentine more kind and honest .
our italy shines o’er with civil swords .
therefore bear up and board 'em . —servant -  monster ,  drink to me .
my best endeavours shall be done herein .
now for ourself, and for this time of meeting.
why ,  thou hast put him in such a dream that when the image of it leaves him he must run mad .
an inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest.
you did know how much you were my conqueror ,  and that my sword ,  made weak by my affection ,  would obey it on all cause .
i am an ass ,  i am a woman’s man ,  and besides myself .
unto bad causes swear such creatures as men doubt .
ay ,  madam ,  twenty several messengers .
what light through yonder window breaks?
i prophesied if a gallows were on land this fellow could not drown.
i am a jew .
oh ,  excellent !
relent ,  sweet hermia; and ,  lysander ,  yield thy crazed title to my certain right .
o cassio, cassio, cassio!
we love him highly and shall continue our graces towards him .
let go ,  slave ,  or thou diest !
i will o'erlook thy paper .
certain ,  men should be what they seem .
we hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd in england and in ireland ,  not confessing their cruel parricide ,  filling their hearers with strange invention .
of nothing.
i ,  not rememb'ring how i cried out then ,  will cry it o'er again: it is a hint that wrings mine eyes to't .
fut ,  i should have been that i am ,  had the maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on my bastardizing .
go in ,  nerissa .
a calendar ,  a calendar !
o!
but tell me why you proceeded not against these feats so crimeful and so capital in nature ,  as by your safety ,  wisdom ,  all things else ,  you mainly were stirr'd up .
well ,  if fortune be a woman ,  she's a good wench for this gear . —father ,  come .
but wherefore art not in thy shop today ?
o heavy day!
see'st thou this sweet sight?
here is a mourning rome ,  a dangerous rome ,  no rome of safety for octavius yet; hie hence ,  and tell him so .
the west yet glimmers with some streaks of day; now spurs the lated traveller apace to gain the timely inn ,  and near approaches the subject of our watch .
trust me ,  sweet ,  out of this silence yet i picked a welcome; and in the modesty of fearful duty i read as much as from the rattling tongue of saucy and audacious eloquence .
fury ,  fury !
dear love ,  adieu !
your face ,  my thane ,  is as a book where men may read strange matters .
prison ,  my lord ?
your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex .
and friends with caesar .
i had been happy if the general camp ,  pioners and all ,  had tasted her sweet body ,  so i had nothing known .
i remember .
all that glisters is not gold— often have you heard that told .
an you re us and fa us ,  you note us .
i must hear from thee every day in the hour, for in a minute there are many days.
you are a senator !
o ,  but i fear—how lost you company ?
let me lick thy shoe .
it is my lady .
therefore i say with noble buckingham that it is meet so few should fetch the prince .
in such a night did young lorenzo swear he loved her well ,  stealing her soul with many vows of faith ,  and ne'er a true one .
our fears in banquo stick deep ,  and in his royalty of nature reigns that which would be fear'd .
for heaven's sake, help me!
dear my lord, make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
therefore, out of thy long-experienc'd time, give me some present counsel; or, behold, 'twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife shall play the umpire, arbitrating that which the commission of thy years and art could to no issue of true honour bring.
good lord for alliance !
it is my duty ,  sir .
if you have lost him: why ,  i have lost him too .
three thousand ducats,—well.
even for that i thank you; therefore, i pray you, lead me to the caskets, to try my fortune.
if he be ,  he knows how to turn his girdle .
my leg is cut in two .
what is the matter?
my pretty cousins ,  you mistake me both .
my cousin’s a fool ,  and thou art another .
as a friend or an enemy ?
say to the king the knowledge of the broil as thou didst leave it .
good laertes, if you desire to know the certainty of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge that, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe, winner and loser?
what doth she say ,  my lord of buckingham ?
hamlet ,  thou hast thy father much offended .
what trade ,  thou knave ?
lead the way .
i know thee well—a serviceable villain ,  as duteous to the vices of thy mistress as badness would desire .
i can no more .
i’ll put it on .
before me!
farewell ,  my lord .
who's there ,  in th’ other devil's name ?
none in the world; nor do i know the man .
withdraw thee ,  wretched margaret .
i have a man's mind, but a woman's might.
that’s a fault .
he shall, sir, an't please him.
madam ,  i'll take my leave .
well, thou dost best.
i will do this ,  if you can bring it to any opportunity .
he dies that strikes again .
most heartily i do beseech the court to give the judgment.
i cannot blame her .
then weigh what loss your honor may sustain if with too credent ear you list his songs ,  or lose your heart ,  or your chaste treasure open to his unmastered importunity .
angels are bright still ,  though the brightest fell .
tis one iago ,  ancient to the general .
i do not think so .
it hath no tongue to vex you .
i pray ,  sir ,  tell me ,  is it possible that love should of a sudden take such hold ?
ancient ,  what makes he here ?
he plies the duke at morning and at night ,  and doth impeach the freedom of the state if they deny him justice .
good troth ,  you do me wrong ,  good sooth ,  you do ,  in such disdainful manner me to woo .
am i dromio ?
look, he meditates.
heavens thank you for't.
call her forth ,  brother .
a deed without a name.
but let that go .
or ,  if his mind be writ ,  give me his letter .
or i will live or bathe my dying honor in the blood shall make it live again .
i am your wife, if you will marry me.
romeo slew tybalt; romeo must not live.
cesario ,  come ,  for so you shall be ,  while you are a man .
tis no such matter .
my lord ,  upon the platform where we watch .
romeo's a dishclout to him .
sir ,  i say to you it is thought you are false knaves .
nay ,  an thou canst not smile as the wind sits ,  thou'lt catch cold shortly .
tell him ,  so please him come unto this place ,  he shall be satisfied and ,  by my honor ,  depart untouched .
may we do so?
i’ll apprehend him .
what ,  may it please you ,  shall i do at salisbury ?
there's warrant in that theft which steals itself when there's no mercy left.
will she go now to bed?
post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced.
all may be well .
oh ,  heaven forgive me !
a friend ?
why ,  he shall never wake until the great judgment day .
i took him sleeping,—that is finish'd too,— and the athenian woman by his side; that, when he waked, of force she must be eyed.
o, help, ho!
they met me in the day of success, and i have learned by the perfectest report, they have more in them than mortal knowledge.
the bark is ready and the wind at help ,  th' associates tend ,  and everything is bent for england .
forbear me .
had i as many eyes as thou hast wounds ,  weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood ,  it would become me better than to close in terms of friendship with thine enemies .
o, ay, as summer flies are in the shambles, that quicken even with blowing.
will't please you go, my lord?
i that am cruel am yet merciful; i would not have thee linger in thy pain .
i am content .
but ,  sir ,  be you ruled by me .
how fares my lord ?
i have it here about me .
why ?
i’ll have her ,  but i will not keep her long .
come ,  prepare !
i will not give my part of this sport for a pension of thousands to be paid from the sophy .
did you say all ?
dost thou mock me ?
i pray you ,  what is he ?
therefore beware my censure ,  and keep your promise .
come.
brought to this town by that most famous warrior duke menaphon ,  your most renownèd uncle .
is she a capulet?
does it not, think thee, stand me now upon— he that hath kill'd my king, and whored my mother; popp'd in between the election and my hopes; thrown out his angle for my proper life, and with such cozenage—is't not perfect conscience to quit him with this arm?
excellent wretch!
here lies the county slain ,  and juliet bleeding ,  warm and newly dead ,  who here hath lain these two days buried . — go ,  tell the prince .
these griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
we are resolved ,  my lord .
his letter there will show you his estate .
o, he is even in my mistress’ case, just in her case!
yes ,  cassius ,  and from henceforth ,  when you are overearnest with your brutus ,  he'll think your mother chides ,  and leave you so .
all which the moor is defective in .
horatio says 'tis but our fantasy ,  and will not let belief take hold of him touching this dreaded sight ,  twice seen of us .
i would not be the villain that thou think'st for the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp and the rich east to boot.
twere best he speak no harm of brutus here.
what else ?
tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
then ,  masters ,  look to see a troublous world .
come ,  therefore ,  and to thasos send his body .
it likes us well; and at our more consider'd time we'll read, answer, and think upon this business.
i have slept ,  my lord ,  already .
liberty!
o heavens !
madam ,  undress you and come now to bed .
you could never do him so ill - well unless you were the very man .
welcome ,  lady .
torments will ope your lips.
first ,  good peter quince ,  say what the play treats on ,  then read the names of the actors ,  and so grow to a point .
since cleopatra died i have lived in such dishonor that the gods detest my baseness .
well ,  sir ?
let him approach .
a mote it is to trouble the mind's eye .
gratiano ,  keep the house ,  and seize upon the fortunes of the moor ,  for they succeed on you .
first ,  good peter quince ,  say what the play treats on; then read the names of the actors; and so grow to a point .
and if you wrong us ,  shall we not revenge ?
ay, madam.
faith ,  i know not what to say .
as thou got’st milan ,  i’ll come by naples .
ha !
who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  i will assume desert . —give me a key for this ,  and instantly unlock my fortunes here .
is he not a most profane and liberal counselor ?
to bed, to bed, to bed.
my quaint ariel ,  hark in thine ear .
he wore his beaver up.
his hour is almost past.
ay, that he was.
tell the constable .
well ,  girl ,  thou weep'st not so much for his death as that the villain lives which slaughter'd him .
i will hear that play; for never anything can be amiss when simpleness and duty tender it.
will it not be ?
fair and noble hostess ,  we are your guest tonight .
why ,  what is tybalt ?
methinks thy voice is altered ,  and thou speak’st in better phrase and matter than thou didst .
to't again, come!
farewell .
naked in bed ,  iago ,  and not mean harm !
no, not tonight.
thou hotly lust’st to use her in that kind  for which thou whipp’st her .
the sweetest honey is loathsome in his own deliciousness and in the taste confounds the appetite.
o ,  remember ,  god ,  to hear her prayer for them ,  as now for us !
i thank my stars i am happy .
farewell: i'll grow a talker for this gear.
beg another of thy daughters .
that i did love the moor to live with him, my downright violence and storm of fortunes may trumpet to the world.
then leave him out .
prithee, dispatch.
now ,  roderigo ,  where didst thou see her ? —oh ,  unhappy girl ! — with the moor ,  say’st thou ? —who would be a father ? — how didst thou know ’twas she ? —oh ,  she deceives me past thought ! —what said she to you ? —get more tapers ,  raise all my kindred .
methinks it should be now a huge eclipse of sun and moon ,  and that the affrighted globe should yawn at alteration .
come in, without there!
shall i descend ?
go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body into the chapel.
i am content you shall entreat me stay ,  but yet not stay ,  entreat me how you can .
more ,  i prithee ,  more .
was milan thrust from milan ,  that his issue should become kings of naples ?
farewell.
o, it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who, for the most part, are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb-shows and noise.
the lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard .
come, my spade!
cleopatra— think you there was or might be such a man as this i dreamt of ?
to cut his throat i' the church .
commend me to your daughter.
to tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where i lie.
immoderately she weeps for tybalt's death ,  and therefore have i little talk'd of love; for venus smiles not in a house of tears .
how if fair and foolish?
now ,  ursula ,  when beatrice doth come ,  as we do trace this alley up and down ,  our talk must only be of benedick .
doth not rosemary and romeo begin both with a letter ?
that is done too ,  sir: only ,  cover is the word .
i did ,  my lord .
my master is grown quarrelsome .
this likes me well.
why ,  man ,  i saw bassanio under sail; with him is gratiano gone along; and in their ship ,  i am sure ,  lorenzo is not .
but this place is too cold for hell .
whose tongue ?
now here's another discontented paper ,  found in his pocket too; and this ,  it seems ,  roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain; but that ,  belike ,  iago in the interim came in and satisfied him .
therefore with frank and with uncurbèd plainness tell us the dauphin’s mind .
come ,  come .
sir ,  i entreat you home with me to dinner .
their residence ,  both in reputation and profit ,  was better both ways .
ay, a thousand times.
no, none that thou hast wit enough to make.
no.
is not this true ?
here ,  madam:     conster them .
and we will hear it .
he unlocks the golden casket] [he unlocks the golden casket] o hell !
let me see now: to get his place, and to plume up my will in double knavery—how, how?
i'll tell you what you shall do.
art thou a man?
hark ,  hark !
what ,  i will be jovial .
i’ll bury thee in a triumphant grave .
when he returns from hunting ,  i will not speak with him .
be it as you shall privately determine ,  either for her stay or going .
look, here it is.
they shout for joy .
when i like your favor ,  for god defend the lute should be like the case !
nay, good my lord— it is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gain-giving as would perhaps trouble a woman.
in thunder ,  lightning ,  or in rain ?
take them in .
then let your servants bring my husband forth .
graze where you will, you shall not house with me.
hast thou not a word of joy ?
trinculo ,  if you trouble him any more in's tale ,  by this hand ,  i will supplant some of your teeth .
all things that are ,  are with more spirit chasèd than enjoyed .
i’ll make you quiet . —what ,  cheerly ,  my hearts !
who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
my lord ,  your promise for the earldom— richmond !
behold ,  sir .
he doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit .
be ’t so .
i see ,  sir ,  you are liberal in offers: you taught me first to beg; and now ,  methinks ,  you teach me how a beggar should be answer'd .
go thou with me ,  and let me counsel thee .
so is the dear'st o'th’ loss.
should you do so ,  my lord ,  my speech should fall into such vile success which my thoughts aim not at .
at sea ,  i think .
i will make myself known to desdemona .
o me ,  what hast thou done ?
i shall desire you of more acquaintance ,  good master cobweb .
the brain may devise laws for the blood; but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold decree: such a hare is madness the youth, to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the cripple.
did not you tell me i should know the man by the athenian garment he had on ?
go ,  hercules !
what committed?
lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby; lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby .
ha ,  ha !
has he, masters?
or rather ,  do thy pleasure .
how much unlike art thou to portia !
and not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch of merchant - marring rocks ?
i understand a fury in your words ,  but not the words .
but say ,  i prithee ,  is he coming home ?
no tongue, all eyes!
and with such maimed rites?
i’ll to the throng .
what ,  sir ,  not yet at rest ?
marry, sir.
you have been nobly borne .
sleep thou ,  and i will wind thee in my arms .
come ,  i will bring thee to thy bridal chamber .
spread thy close curtain, love-performing night, that runaway eyes may wink, and romeo leap to these arms untalk'd of and unseen.
go seek him .
caesar ,  i go .
your lady ,  sir ,  your lady .
thither he will come to know his destiny.
lives ,  sir .
there’s some conceit or other likes him well when that he bids good morrow with such spirit .
hast thou not a word of joy?
o, my good lord, yonder's foul murders done!
i am all the daughters of my father’s house ,  and all the brothers too—and yet i know not .
what do you see ?
their course of love ,  the tidings of her death .
what’s the matter ?
is she not a modest young lady ?
this was well done ,  my bird .
time ,  thou anticipat’st my dread exploits .
so please you, something touching the lord hamlet.
i thank you .
i have been feasting with mine enemy ,  where on a sudden one hath wounded me that's by me wounded .
i looked not for you yet ,  nor am provided for your fit welcome .
i have of late—but wherefore i know not— lost all my mirth ,  forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed ,  it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame ,  the earth ,  seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy ,  the air ,  look you ,  this brave o'erhanging firmament ,  this majestical roof fretted with golden fire ,  why ,  it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours .
i have begun to plant thee, and will labor to make thee full of growing.
not life, but love in death!
bid the players make haste .
what said he when he came unto himself ?
and will he not come again?
when being not at your lodging to be found the senate hath sent about three several guests to search you out .
god forgive us our sins !
here is a friar that trembles, sighs, and weeps.
come ,  wrack !
through athens i am thought as fair as she.
o gull !
captain macmorris ,  i think ,  look you ,  under your correction ,  there is not many of your nation—  of my nation ?
peace ,  ho ,  for shame !
for his thoughts ,  would they were blanks ,  rather than fill’d with me .
not so happy ,  yet much happier .
prithee ,  be content .
his knights grow riotous ,  and himself upbraids us on every trifle .
she was too good for me .
what's the matter?
i evermore did love you, hermia, did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you; save that, in love unto demetrius, i told him of your stealth unto this wood.
if you bethink yourself of any crime unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace ,  solicit for it straight .
nay ,  he's a flower ,  in faith—a very flower .
where are the vile beginners of this fray?
and squabble ?
a heavy sight !
your hands ,  come then .
three times today my foot - cloth horse did stumble ,  and started when he looked upon the tower ,  as loath to bear me to the slaughterhouse .
far from this country pindarus shall run ,  where never roman shall take note of him .
hence !
come ,  come; lend me a light .
stop there ,  stop there !
i am your wife ,  if you will marry me .
the court awards it ,  and the law doth give it .
they are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that.
i fear no uncles dead .
mistress ,  how mean you that ?
this hand of yours requires a sequester from liberty ,  fasting and prayer ,  much castigation ,  exercise devout ,  for here's a young and sweating devil here that commonly rebels .
come ,  come away .
read on this book ,  that show of such an exercise may colour your loneliness .
ay ,  at philippi .
i will not go today ,  and ere i do it shall be what o'clock i say it is .
approach ,  my ariel ,  come .
pointing to caliban] this is a strange thing as e'er i [pointing to caliban] this is a strange thing as e'er i look'd on.
do thy office .
the king's son have i landed by himself ,  whom i left cooling of the air with sighs in an odd angle of the isle ,  and sitting ,  his arms in this sad knot .
farewell !
horatio ,  thou art e'en as just a man as e'er my conversation cop'd withal .
but hear you: methought you said, you neither lend nor borrow, upon advantage.
what says romeo?
he prays you to save his life .
coming from sardis ,  on our former ensign two mighty eagles fell ,  and there they perched ,  gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands ,  who to philippi here consorted us .
where be these enemies ?
an i do not— come ,  let’s see the event .
no ,  nor i neither ,  but most wonderful that she should so dote on signor benedick ,  whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor .
i tell thee ,  i am as well in my wits as any man in illyria .
dost thou mock me?
an’t please your majesty ,  ’tis the gage of one that i should fight withal ,  if he be alive .
tis a good hearing when children are toward .
is it new and old too ?
this ensign here of mine was turning back; i slew the coward ,  and did take it from him .
we now are near his cell .
o rude unthankfulness !
certain ,  men should be what they seem .
that is laertes ,  a very noble youth .
murder, murder!
i repent me much that so i harried him .
this was a great argument of love in her toward you .
alas, my friend and my dear countryman roderigo?
what's his weapon?
men must not walk too late .
i scarce did know you ,  uncle; there lies your niece ,  whose breath indeed these hands have newly stopp'd .
mine nightingale ,  we have beat them to their beds .
adieu ,  good neighbor .
more of this matter cannot i report .
put your bonnet to his right use.
i have a wife ,  whom i protest i love; i would she were in heaven ,  so she could entreat some power to change this currish jew .
forbear to sleep the nights ,  and fast the days; compare dead happiness with living woe; think that thy babes were sweeter than they were ,  and he that slew them fouler than he is .
the morning comes upon's.
shall i do such a deed ?
no ,  my lord .
these are now the fashion ,  and so berattle the common stages—so they call them—that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose - quills and dare scarce come thither .
but let that go.
you have simply misused our sex in your love - prate .
i am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.
if you do fight against your country’s foes ,  your country’s fat shall pay your pains the hire .
if ever he go alone again ,  i’ll never wrestle for prize more .
ay ,  if the fool could find it where it lies .
but come thy ways .
i fear i wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabb'd caesar; i do fear it .
not a word .
ha ,  banishment !
i'll be your foil, laertes.
it waves me forth again .
ay ,  good my lord .
my charity is outrage ,  life my shame ,  and in that shame still live my sorrows' rage .
i chose her when i could not ask my father for his advice, nor thought i had one.
but i confess ,  sir ,  that we were locked out .
to suckle fools and chronicle small beer .
dull thing ,  i say so: he ,  that caliban whom now i keep in service .
wherefore weep i then ?
the table's full .
now go we in content to liberty ,  and not to banishment .
whiles we stood here securing your repose ,  even now ,  we heard a hollow burst of bellowing like bulls ,  or rather lions .
thou shalt not be the worse for me: there’s gold .
or is it a fee - grief due to some single breast ?
but that i do not .
arms ,  take your last embrace !
good morrow to you .
i’ll slit the villain’s nose that would have sent me to the jail .
i have ,  my lord .
the goodness of the night upon you, friends!
he did receive his letters and is coming .
a plague o' both your houses !
i say, away!
by heaven, you do me wrong.
let me be put to death .
such a one is a natural philosopher .
death lies on her like an untimely frost upon the sweetest flower of all the field .
in the meantime ,  let me be thought too busy in my fears— as worthy cause i have to fear i am— and hold her free ,  i do beseech your honor .
at lovers’ perjuries, they say jove laughs.
tis more ,  'tis more !
i have them ready.
he and lepidus are at caesar’s house .
bid them move away .
look ,  how he makes to caesar .
so please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure.
shall i believe that unsubstantial death is amorous, and that the lean abhorred monster keeps thee here in dark to be his paramour?
a whoreson, mad fellow's it was.
if in naples i should report this now ,  would they believe me ?
that will i .
and what’s to come of my despisèd time is naught but bitterness .
i had as lief be a brownist as a politician .
heaven doth truly know it .
come, go with me.
good mistress accost ,  i desire better acquaintance .
why ,  i pray you ,  is not  “ pig ”  great ?
i pray you tell me .
my wayward husband hath a hundred times
by your leave ,  hostess .
no; i will resist such entertainment till mine enemy has more power.
cessez !
dear lady ,  welcome home .
my lord ,  this would not be believed in venice ,  though i should swear i saw ’t .
adieu ,  good monsieur melancholy .
and why ,  sir ,  must they so ?
they would not have you to stir forth today .
what art thou ,  fellow ?
i swoon almost with fear.
marry ,  i will ,  and this is wisely done .
where's your father?
pray you, sir, stand up; i am sure you are not launcelot, my boy.
why ,  she is within .
why ,  man ?
no ,  truly not ,  although until last night i have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow .
hie you to the cell .
cambio is changed into lucentio .
out on her ,  hilding !
that will i ,  for i must bear answer back how you excuse my brother ,  rosalind .
this falls out better than i could devise.
no ,  not till thursday .
i frown the while ,  and perchance wind up watch ,  or play with my—some rich jewel .
for both our sakes ,  i would that word were true .
pray heaven it be state matters, as you think, and no conception nor no jealous toy concerning you.
good night .
i dare be sworn for him he would not leave it nor pluck it from his finger for the wealth that the world masters .
in both my eyes he doubly sees himself: in each eye, one:—swear by your double self, and there's an oath of credit.
to our shores throng many doubtful hollow - hearted friends ,  unarmed and unresolved to beat them back .
he supp'd at my house; but i therefore shake not.
spakest thou of juliet ?
god !
fair and noble hostess, we are your guest tonight.
alas ,  he faints !
how  “ seventh cause ”  ? —good my lord ,  like this fellow .
i shall laugh myself to death at this puppy - headed monster .
worthy montano ,  you were wont be civil; the gravity and stillness of your youth the world hath noted ,  and your name is great in mouths of wisest censure .
o ill - starr'd wench !
my lord, you know i love you.
o, this is counter, you false danish dogs!
tis a lost fear: man but a rush against othello's breast, and he retires.
he has been yonder i' the sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half hour .
tis done .
it may be so ,  for it is not mine own .
our time does call upon's.
tis all one .
why do they run away ?
a bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours .
art thou afeard ?
if the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality ,  the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most prepost'rous conclusions .
i had as lief have my mistress a jade .
a contract of true love to celebrate ,  and some donation freely to estate on the blessed lovers .
at thy good heart's oppression.
there's such divinity doth hedge a king that treason can but peep to what it would, acts little of his will.
fool ,  i’ll requite it in the highest degree .
good night ,  lieutenant ,  i must to the watch .
and that clear honour were purchas'd by the merit of the wearer !
by dromio ?
o heavy lightness!
alexas !
both by myself and many other friends; but he, his own affections’ counsellor, is to himself—i will not say how true— but to himself so secret and so close, so far from sounding and discovery, as is the bud bit with an envious worm ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
thou dost lie in't ,  to be in't and say it' 'tis thine .
how now ,  roderigo !
he hath left them you and to your heirs forever—common pleasures ,  to walk abroad and recreate yourselves .
but now ,  my lord .
hadst thou thy wits ,  and didst persuade revenge ,  it could not move thus .
what is this same ?
it is not day .
why ,  sir ,  you know no house nor no such maid ,  nor no such men as you have reckoned up ,  as stephen sly and old john naps of greece ,  and peter turph and henry pimpernell ,  and twenty more such names and men as these ,  which never were ,  nor no man ever saw .
e'en so, my lord.
how if fair and foolish ?
their shadows seem a canopy most fatal, under which our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
and ,  as i am an honest puck ,   if we have unearnèd luck  now to ’scape the serpent’s tongue ,   we will make amends ere long .
sweet lord ,  if your lordship were at leisure ,  i should impart a thing to you from his majesty .
pray you ,  is he married to cleopatra ?
his name ,  my lord ,  is tyrrel .
then she is well, and nothing can be ill.
soft and fair ,  friar . —which is beatrice ?
but yet hie you to egypt again .
all myself ?
i’ll not deny him anything i have ,  no ,  not my body ,  nor my husband’s bed .
hast thou met with him ?
it struck mine ear most terribly .
i told him what i thought ,  and told no more than what he found himself was apt and true .
i pray you, good bassanio, let me know it; and, if it stand, as you yourself still do, within the eye of honour, be assur'd, my purse, my person, my extremest means, lie all unlock'd to your occasions.
call up all my people!
but where hast thou been ,  then ?
o ,  who hath done this deed ?
beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself: and yet ,  thy wealth being forfeit to the state ,  thou hast not left the value of a cord; therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge .
be gone!
the slip ,  sir ,  the slip .
most mischievous foul sin in chiding sin ,  for thou thyself hast been a libertine ,  as sensual as the brutish sting itself ,  and all th' embossèd sores and headed evils that thou with license of free foot hast caught wouldst thou disgorge into the general world .
officers ,  what offense have these men done ?
to prison; till fit time of law and course of direct session, call thee to answer.
the king ?
i hear the minstrels play .
at least we'll die with harness on our back .
i assure you, carthage.
you know tomorrow is the wedding day .
and if you wrong us ,  shall we not revenge ?
dost thou hear, iago?
so please my lord the duke and all the court ,  to quit the fine for one half of his goods i am content ,  so he will let me have the other half in use to render it upon his death unto the gentleman that lately stole his daughter .
talk you of young master launcelot?—mark me now—now will i raise the waters.—talk you of young master launcelot?
there they hoist us, to cry to th’ sea that roared to us, to sigh to th’ winds, whose pity, sighing back again, did us but loving wrong.
let's assist them, for our case is theirs.
amen .
no, unpin me here.
my lord, his majesty commended him to you by young osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in the hall.
how now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?
marry ,  if he that writ it had played pyramus and hanged himself in thisbe’s garter ,  it would have been a fine tragedy .
if you shall send them word you will not come ,  their minds may change .
if you will take a homely man's advice, be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
well ,  my lord .
it may be so ,  my lord .
call'd you, my lord?
for the which i hear what they say of him .
o ,  their bones ,  their bones !
go with me to bless this twain that they may prosperous be ,  and honored in their issue .
i swear to thee ,  by cupid's strongest bow ,  by his best arrow ,  with the golden head ,  by the simplicity of venus' doves ,  by that which knitteth souls and prospers loves ,  and by that fire which burn'd the carthage queen ,  when the false trojan under sail was seen ,  by all the vows that ever men have broke ,  in number more than ever women spoke ,  in that same place thou hast appointed me ,  tomorrow truly will i meet with thee .
whip me such honest knaves.
this caesar was a tyrant.
faith ,  you'll be sick to - morrow for this night's watching .
nothing at all .
most excellent accomplished lady ,  the heavens rain odors on you !
plucks off my beard and blows it in my face ?
go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault, assemble all the poor men of your sort, draw them to tiber banks, and weep your tears into the channel, till the lowest stream do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
why, i were best to cut my left hand off and swear i lost the ring defending it.
bloody ,  bawdy villain !
happily ,  amen !
my cake is dough ,  but i’ll in among the rest ,  out of hope of all but my share of the feast .
how like a prodigal doth she return; with over - weather'd ribs ,  and ragged sails ,  lean ,  rent ,  and beggar'd by the strumpet wind !
i am justly kill'd with mine own treachery .
his name’s cinna .
sir ,  speed you .
directly, i am going to caesar's funeral.
that villain cousin would have killed my husband .
and thither will i straight to visit him .
oh ,  i were damned beneath all depth in hell ,  but that i did proceed upon just grounds to this extremity .
even so.
look you lay home to him.
are we all ready ?
so long ?
my good knave eros ,  now thy captain is even such a body .
get horses for your mistress .
but i’ll amerce you with so strong a fine that you shall all repent the loss of mine .
i am fire and air ,  my other elements i give to baser life . —so ,  have you done ?
i cannot tell .
how all occasions do inform against me and spur my dull revenge !
you see how simple and how fond i am.
let me stand here till thou remember it .
how cam'st thou to be the siege of this moon - calf ?
ay, there it is.
o, damn her!
to me it is a prison .
one ever near thee .
nay ,  but i know who loves him .
i'll send her to you presently; and i'll devise a mean to draw the moor out of the way, that your converse and business may be more free.
stir with the lark tomorrow ,  gentle norfolk .
i pray you ,  one of you question yond man ,  if he for gold will give us any food .
i have charged thee not to haunt about my doors: in honest plainness thou hast heard me say my daughter is not for thee; and now ,  in madness , — being full of supper and distempering draughts , — upon malicious bravery ,  dost thou come to start my quiet .
it shall be done .
one that old frederick ,  your father ,  loves .
i’m out of patience .
do not swear at all; or if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self, which is the god of my idolatry, and i'll believe thee.
i fear my thisbe’s promise is forgot ! — and thou ,  o wall ,  o sweet ,  o lovely wall ,  that stand’st between her father’s ground and mine .
i have limed her ,  but it is jove’s doing ,  and jove make me thankful !
do we but find the tyrant’s power tonight ,  let us be beaten if we cannot fight .
o sweet portia ,  here are a few of the unpleasant’st words that ever blotted paper .
hark !
so much for this ,  sir .
twas on a summer’s evening in his tent ,  that day he overcame the nervii .
the canker galls the infants of the spring too oft before their buttons be disclosed, and in the morn and liquid dew of youth contagious blastments are most imminent.
i have great comfort from this fellow .
here’s romeo’s man .
tis such another fitchew .
too long a pause for that which you find there .
and therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
then there is no true lover in the forest ,  else sighing every minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazy foot of time as well as a clock .
good gentlemen, give him a further edge and drive his purpose on to these delights.
go then ,  for 'tis in vain ‘to seek him here that means not to be found .
give me the letter .
who would not have his wife so ?
young fortinbras, with conquest come from poland, to the ambassadors of england gives this warlike volley.
come, let us to the castle.
an he speak any thing against me ,  i’ll take him down ,  an he were lustier than he is ,  and twenty such jacks .
there thou mayst brain him ,  having first seized his books; or with a log batter his skull; or paunch him with a stake; or cut his weasand with thy knife .
he is far gone.
swear by my sword .
here was a caesar !
he came too late .
then are our beggars bodies ,  and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows .
content thee ,  gentle coz .
ha, ha!
five - and - twenty ,  sir .
she might lie by an emperor's side, and command him tasks.
still thou mistakest ,  or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully .
the spirit torments me .
do it quickly .
thou hast railed on thyself .
you shall not stir out of your house today .
now ,  afore god ,  i am so vexed that every part about me quivers .
i see you do not mean to part with her ,  or else you like not of my company .
out upon her!
he has almost supp'd .
oh ,  what a goodly outside falsehood hath !
do you not hope your children shall be kings, when those that gave the thane of cawdor to me promised no less to them?
i hear some noise within .
why ,  how now ,  daughter katherine ?
what !
yes ,  he is dead .
i must ,  she’ll rail in the street else .
the noble duke my master ,  my worthy arch and patron ,  comes tonight .
welcome to rome .
o hell !
he followed you .
that you should think ,  we come not to offend ,  but with good will .
beshrew my very heart ,  i think you are happy in this second match ,  for it excels your first .
in your bad strokes, brutus, you give good words.
can you not conceive ?
what's the matter ?
do you quarrel, sir?
the other motive why to a public count i might not go is the great love the general gender bear him ,  who ,  dipping all his faults in their affection ,  would ,  like the spring that turneth wood to stone ,  convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows ,  too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind ,  would have reverted to my bow again ,  and not where i had aim'd them .
my dearest coz ,  i pray you ,  school yourself .
what's the matter ,  that you unlace your reputation thus ,  and spend your rich opinion for the name of a nightbrawler ?
in what chapter of his bosom ?
i would do much t' atone them ,  for the love i bear to cassio .
and i know ,  my lord ,  if law ,  authority ,  and power deny not ,  it will go hard with poor antonio .
lord ,  lord ,  she will be a joyful woman .
this did i fear ,  but thought he had no weapon ,  for he was great of heart .
good now ,  some excellent fortune !
yes ,  by saint patrick ,  but there is ,  horatio ,  and much offence too .
what is between you ?
we ,  at the height ,  are ready to decline .
more shall they speak; for now i am bent to know, by the worst means, the worst.
nay ,  it is possible enough to judgment .
i have well approved it, sir.
let us go .
last thing he did ,  dear queen ,  he kissed—the last of many doubled kisses— this orient pearl .
what early tongue so sweet saluteth me ?
o noble prince ,  i can discover all the unlucky manage of this fatal brawl .
make it no wonder .
what to ourselves in passion we propose ,  the passion ending ,  doth the purpose lose .
this is a sorry sight.
i must to england; you know that?
god save the king!
most savage and unnatural !
go ,  take it up unto thy master’s use .
briefly, i dwell by the capitol.
o blessed ,  blessed night !
two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats will not debate the question of this straw .
we being strangers here ,  how dar’st thou trust so great a charge from thine own custody ?
it is a nipping and an eager air.
no ,  though thou call’st thyself a hotter name than any is in hell .
alas the day !
tell me your mind .
i will go before ,  sir . — mistress ,  look out at window ,  for all this .
pray you ,  go with us .
it beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
ay, so, god be wi' ye!
then we'll shift our ground .
but ,  look you ,  cassius ,  the angry spot doth glow on caesar's brow ,  and all the rest look like a chidden train: calpurnia's cheek is pale ,  and cicero looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes as we have seen him in the capitol ,  being cross'd in conference by some senators .
abide me ,  if thou darest; for well i wot thou runnest before me ,  shifting every place ,  and darest not stand ,  nor look me in the face .
so shall you feel the loss ,  but not the friend which you weep for .
here ,  sir !
spend this for me .
upon mine honor ,  sir ,  i heard a humming ,  and that a strange one too ,  which did awake me .
i know that voice .
as you are old and reverend ,  should be wise .
affection is not rated from the heart .
rub him about the temples.
if't be not for some purpose of import ,  give't me again .
pitchers have ears .
beware macduff; beware the thane of fife .
what if this cursed hand were thicker than itself with brother's blood ,  is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens to wash it white as snow ?
if you knew my business ,  you would entreat me rather go than stay .
no ,  nor more fearful .
god's bodykins ,  man ,  much better !
his speech was like a tangled chain .
he was not merry ,  which seemed to tell them his remembrance lay in egypt with his joy ,  but between both .
he threw his eye aside— and mark what object did present itself: under an old oak ,  whose boughs were mossed with age and high top bald with dry antiquity ,  a wretched ,  ragged man ,  o'ergrown with hair ,  lay sleeping on his back .
i warrant her rags and the
why, bride!
if i do so ,  it will be of more price ,  being spoke behind your back ,  than to your face .
you might have rhymed.
whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend .
and we will hear it .
i will not till i please .
remember me .
how ?
either my eyesight fails ,  or thou look'st pale .
gods and goddesses ,  all the whole synod of them !
before my god, i might not this believe without the sensible and true avouch of mine own eyes.
but look, amazement on thy mother sits.
why comest thou?
tis meet i should be used so ,  very meet .
if you say ,  i hope you will not kill me .
and this weak and idle theme, no more yielding but a dream, gentles, do not reprehend.
alas ,  good cassio !
music !
they are all forth; well ,  i will walk myself to county paris ,  to prepare him up against to - morrow .
i am not in the giving vein today .
though i wish thy death ,  i will not be the executioner .
lead him off.
no; you will reveal it .
caesar ,  thou art revenged ,  even with the sword that killed thee .
this presence knows ,  and you must needs have heard ,  how i am punish'd with sore distraction .
sir ,  this is the matter—  i beseech you ,  remember— nay ,  good my lord ,  for mine ease ,  in good faith .
all there is thine .
fare you well .
what didst not like?
liar and slave !
it is backed like a weasel .
his liberty is full of threats to all ,  to you yourself ,  to us ,  to every one .
my lord and you were then at mantua . — nay ,  i do bear a brain . —but ,  as i said ,  when it did taste the wormwood on the nipple of my dug and felt it bitter ,  pretty fool ,  to see it tetchy and fall out with the dug !
or stole it, rather.
what's your grace's will?
and will she yet abase her eyes on me ,  that cropped the golden prime of this sweet prince and made her widow to a woeful bed ?
none of noble sort would so offend a virgin ,  and extort a poor soul's patience ,  all to make you sport .
thou dost infect mine eyes .
ha !
o, break, my heart!
but that i do not.
then yield thee ,  coward ,  and live to be the show and gaze o' th' time .
what would you with her, sir?
poor birds they are not set for .
how do you ,  pretty lady ?
now ,  by the world—      'tis full of thy foul wrongs .
if that will not suffice ,  i will be bound to pay it ten times o'er ,  on forfeit of my hands ,  my head ,  my heart .
thy love ?
i love thee not ,  therefore pursue me not .
conduct me to mine host .
truly ,  i think they are .
i will give treason his payment into plows ,  i warrant you .
when these prodigies do so conjointly meet ,  let not men say  “ these are their reasons; they are natural ,  ”  for ,  i believe ,  they are portentous things unto the climate that they point upon .
tis good .
o, that deceit should dwell in such a gorgeous palace!
dost understand the word ?
excellent.
ay, with cassio.
and how does your content tender your own good fortune ?
the shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort, who pyramus presented, in their sport forsook his scene and ent'red in a brake; when i did him at this advantage take, an ass's nole i fixed on his head.
what's the matter ?
in happy time ,  iago .
welcome from mantua .
all the infections that the sun sucks up from bogs, fens, flats, on prosper fall, and make him by inch-meal disease!
she give it cassio ?
do not forget.
o !
now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks: they'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
thus it is ,  general .
come ,  go with me apart .
time ,  thou anticipatest my dread exploits .
oh ,  the more angel she ,  and you the blacker devil !
was this before the king returned ?
if she cannot entreat, i can compel.
and yet i wish but for the thing i have.
i need not to be ashamed of your majesty ,  praised be god ,  so long as your majesty is an honest man .
lucius ,  awake .
deceiving me is thisbe's cue .
be subject to no sight but thine and mine ,  invisible to every eyeball else .
what ,  ho !
yea ,  my lord .
i would speak with clarence ,  and i came hither on my legs .
tis new to thee .
fie ,  fie ,  fie ,  pah ,  pah ! —give me an ounce of civet ,  good apothecary ,  to sweeten my imagination .
he will come straight .
he shall in time be ready .
tis a good hand, a frank one.
mine speak of seventy senators that died by their proscriptions ,  cicero being one .
had she affections and warm youthful blood ,  she would be as swift in motion as a ball .
can i go forward when my heart is here?
i did very well note him.
if ever you disturb our streets again ,  your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace .
most rightful judge !
if thou couldst, doctor, cast the water of my land, find her disease and purge it to a sound and pristine health, i would applaud thee to the very echo, that should applaud again.
in sooth, you are to blame.
know you not he has?
the violet smells to him as it doth to me .
hear you ,  my lords—     we have some haste ,  leonato .
but brother anthony—     come ,  ’tis no matter .
what’s the matter that you unlace your reputation thus and spend your rich opinion for the name of a night - brawler ?
my poverty but not my will consents.
why ,  revenge .
pish !
one turf shall serve as pillow for us both; one heart ,  one bed ,  two bosoms ,  and one troth .
thou art so far before ,  that swiftest wing of recompense is slow to overtake thee .
lord ,  we know what we are ,  but know not what we may be .
why ,  a horse .
you are welcome ,  masters ,  welcome ,  all ! —i am glad to see thee well . —welcome ,  good friends . —o old friend ?
ay ,  desdemona .
she false with cassio !
ay .
your vessels and your spells provide ,  your charms and everything beside .
i have been talking with a suitor here, a man that languishes in your displeasure.
how now ,  ophelia ?
good morrow ,  masters .
if it be so ,  it is a chance which does redeem all sorrows that ever i have felt .
his means of death, his obscure burial— no trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones, no noble rite nor formal ostentation, cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth, that i must call't in question.
ay ,  boy .
he’s coming ,  madam .
both your majesties might ,  by the sovereign power you have of us ,  put your dread pleasures more into command than to entreaty .
i know you are of her bosom .
by the eighth hour.
i'll not be made a soft and dull - ey'd fool ,  to shake the head ,  relent ,  and sigh ,  and yield to christian intercessors .
grieve not that i am fallen to this for you; for herein fortune shows herself more kind than is her custom: it is still her use, to let the wretched man out-live his wealth, to view with hollow eye, and wrinkled brow, an age of poverty; from which lingering penance of such misery doth she cut me off.
in mine ignorance your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night, stick fiery off indeed.
were i in england now ,  as once i was ,  and had but this fish painted ,  not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver .
nor the soles of her shoe ?
do not say so ,  my lord .
i do not think thou canst ,  for then thou wast not out three years old .
well, i must leave her company.
let every eye nogetiate for itself and trust no agent ,  for beauty is a witch against whose charms faith melteth into blood .
she was too fond of her most filthy bargain .
ready ,  so please your grace .
i am no pilot; yet ,  wert thou as far as that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea ,  i would adventure for such merchandise .
doth not brutus bootless kneel ?
are you ready ,  sir ?
mother, good night.
i’ll die for ’t but some woman had the ring .
what misadventure is so early up that calls our person from our morning rest ?
not poppy, nor mandragora, nor all the drowsy syrups of the world, shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep which thou owedst yesterday.
or art thou but a dagger of the mind ,  a false creation ,  proceeding from the heat - oppressed brain ?
there are the players .
fate ,  show thy force .
sweet soul ,  take heed ,  take heed of perjury; thou are on thy deathbed .
whiles i see lives, the gashes do better upon them.
he is hid at lawrence' cell .
not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the clock.
no passage ?
mine’s not an idle cause .
follow ,  i pray you .
good love ,  call him back .
but ,  o ,  what form of prayer can serve my turn ?
and is he a man to encounter tybalt ?
where shall we meet i' the morning ?
why do you speak ,  too ,   “ why blame you me to love you ?  ”  ?
my husband then ?
if thou lovest me then ,  steal forth thy father's house tomorrow night; and in the wood ,  a league without the town ,  where i did meet thee once with helena to do observance to a morn of may ,  there will i stay for thee .
is this true ?
this passion ,  and the death of a dear friend ,  would go near to make a man look sad .
good my lord ,  what is your cause of distemper ?
about it.
as thou art to thyself.
my lord ?
there are more things in heaven and earth ,  horatio ,  than are dreamt of in your philosophy .
death ,  lie thou there ,  by a dead man interr'd .
come thou no more for ransom ,  gentle herald .
they could be content to visit other places, and come down with fearful bravery, thinking by this face to fasten in our thoughts that they have courage; but 'tis not so.
i will ,  my lord .
or docks ,  or mallows .
here comes the prince and claudio .
where is he ?
i will read it.
o most dear mistress, the sun will set before i shall discharge what i must strive to do.
here's our chief guest .
you know me well .
we are sent to give thee, from our royal master, thanks; only to herald thee into his sight, not pay thee.
i' th' mire .
fair sir ,  i pity her and wish ,  for her sake more than for mine own ,  my fortunes were more able to relieve her .
will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing ?
it is the east ,  and juliet is the sun !
now ,  cinna; now ,  metellus; what ,  trebonius ,  i have an hour's talk in store for you; remember that you call on me today; be near me ,  that i may remember you .
i pray you ,  keep it in .
but when i tell him he hates flatterers ,  he says he does ,  being then most flatterèd .
even now a tailor called me in his shop and showed me silks that he had bought for me ,  and therewithal took measure of my body .
romeo!
dost thou think alexander looked o' this fashion i' the earth?
he is far gone .
confess yourself freely to her ,  importune her help to put you in your place again .
juliet wills it so.
therefore ,  you clown ,  abandon—which is ,  in the vulgar ,   “ leave ” —the society—which in the boorish is  “ company ” —of this female—which in the common is  “ woman ” ; which together is ,  abandon the society of this female ,  or ,  clown ,  thou perishest; or ,  to thy better understanding ,  diest; or ,  to wit ,  i kill thee ,  make thee away ,  translate thy life into death ,  thy liberty into bondage .
friends to this ground .
answer me in one word .
if i think so ,  i think the same of you .
oh well done !
the turk with a most mighty preparation makes for cyprus .
nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight .
so foul and fair a day i have not seen.
i will here ,  shroud till the dregs of the storm be past .
yes ,  he is dead .
nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through the guts of a beggar.
he’s almost slain ,  and roderigo dead .
his name !
at last ,  a little shaking of mine arm and thrice his head thus waving up and down ,  he raised a sigh so piteous and profound as it did seem to shatter all his bulk and end his being .
therefore i have entreated him along with us to watch the minutes of this night ,  that if again this apparition come he may approve our eyes and speak to it .
do thou meet me presently at the harbor.
one aloof stand sentinel.
all things in common nature should produce without sweat or endeavor .
yes ,  bring me word ,  boy ,  if thy lord look well ,  for he went sickly forth .
mercy ,  mercy !
will it never be morning ?
oh ,  she will sing the savageness out of a bear !
why ,  ’tis not possible .
not one to throw at a dog .
let him go, gertrude.
signior gratiano ?
before god ,  and in my mind ,  very wise .
hail !
i have a daughter .
you durst not so have tempted him .
i will be hang'd, if some eternal villain, some busy and insinuating rogue, some cogging cozening slave, to get some office, have not devised this slander; i'll be hang'd else.
o most happy hour !
this grisly beast ,  which lion hight by name ,  the trusty thisbe ,  coming first by night ,  did scare away ,  or rather did affright; and as she fled ,  her mantle she did fall; which lion vile with bloody mouth did stain .
my first false speaking was this upon myself.
i will leave him .
his madness .
what, look'd he frowningly?
if it were done when ’tis done, then ’twere well it were done quickly.
ay ,  that's a colt ,  indeed ,  for he doth nothing but talk of his horse; and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts that he can shoe him himself: i am much afraid my lady his mother played false with a smith .
there’s but one down .
some must go off .
it is the very error of the moon; she comes more nearer earth than she was wont and makes men mad.
hast thou not dropped from heaven ?
leave you your power to draw, and i shall have no power to follow you.
i will not be long from you .
i would the fool were married to her grave !
you see, her eyes are open.
and to see how he prizes the fool -  ish woman your wife !
one more ,  and this the last: so sweet was ne'er so fatal .
god and your arms be praised ,  victorious friends !
my lord ,  your nobles ,  jealous of your absence ,  seek through your camp to find you .
i can stay with regan ,  i and my hundred knights .
that it should come to this !
i have it ready for thee; here it is .
with this strange virtue he hath a heavenly gift of prophecy ,  and sundry blessings hang about his throne that speak him full of grace .
what is the matter ,  think you ?
me ,  a groat ?
nothing can be made out of nothing .
let him come in .
i hear my father coming .
spirits, which by mine art i have from their confines call'd to enact my present fancies.
beshrew me, but i love her heartily: for she is wise, if i can judge of her; and fair she is, if that mine eyes be true; and true she is, as she hath prov'd herself; and therefore, like herself, wise, fair, and true, shall she be placed in my constant soul.
not so ,  neither .
romeo slew him; he slew mercutio .
why ,  no .
speak .
but we are prevented .
now must your conscience my acquittance seal ,  and you must put me in your heart for friend ,  sith you have heard ,  and with a knowing ear ,  that he which hath your noble father slain pursued my life .
your lordship is right welcome back to denmark.
m ” —why ,  that begins my name .
i have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes .
let them be hunted soundly .
let me not burst in ignorance ,  but tell why thy canonized bones ,  hearsed in death ,  have burst their cerements; why the sepulcher ,
o lamentable day !
would they had stayed .
captain ,  i thee beseech to do me favors .
some aqua-vitae, ho!
god be wi' you ,  sir .
sir ,  pardon me in what i have to say .
i'll warrant she'll tax him home; and ,  as you said ,  and wisely was it said ,  'tis meet that some more audience than a mother ,  since nature makes them partial ,  should o'erhear the speech ,  of vantage .
nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet say nothing neither.
othello’s occupation’s gone .
good heart, at what?
nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er.
thou hadst need send for more money .
benedicite!
the king’s son have i landed by himself ,  whom i left cooling of the air with sighs in an odd angle of the isle ,  and sitting ,  his arms in this sad knot .
who would do so ?
propose the oath ,  my lord .
my poverty but not my will consents .
i have done the state some service, and they know't.
what is your parentage ?  ”   “ above my fortunes ,  yet my state is well .
she’s not well married that lives married long ,  but she’s best married that dies married young .
such as she says my lord did say i was.
he brings me liberty .
if these be true spies which i wear in my head ,  here's a goodly sight .
cassius ,  what night is this !
if she lives till doomsday ,  she’ll burn a week longer than the whole world .
there are my keys . —but wherefore should i go ?
indeed ?
and mustardseed!
let all the rest give place .
i  “ an itching palm ”  !
it is very hot .
into my grave ?
lord of his fortunes he salutes thee ,  and requires to live in egypt; which not granted ,  he lessens his requests ,  and to thee sues to let him breathe between the heavens and earth a private man in athens .
go to ,  go to .
o ,  'tis most sweet when in one line two crafts directly meet .
these many then shall die, their names are prick'd.
so please you ,  something touching the lord hamlet .
a stone - cutter or painter could not have made him so ill though they had been but two years o' th' trade .
not in love neither ?
what, lamb!
a very weak monster .
i take thee at thy word .
then by your side no bed room me deny .
the fellow has good judgment .
he shall stay my leisure .
if you be well pleas'd with this ,  and hold your fortune for your bliss ,  turn you where your lady is ,  and claim her with a loving kiss .
ay ,  more .
deny me this, and an eternal curse fall on you!
do not forget .
she is persuaded i will marry her ,  out of her own love and flattery ,  not out of my promise .
no ,  sir ,  it is legs and thighs .
it is the lady that pyramus must love .
graze where you will ,  you shall not house with me .
then shall i bleed to death .
was it so late ,  friend ,  ere you went to bed ,  that you do lie so late ?
nothing but this: your true love for my master .
when shall he come ?
our reasons are so full of good regard that were you ,  antony ,  the son of caesar ,  you should be satisfied .
i have no words .
your constancy hath left you unattended.
nay, take my life and all; pardon not that: you take my house when you do take the prop that doth sustain my house; you take my life, when you do take the means whereby i live.
no ,  sooth ,  sir .
a match!
the name of cassius honors this corruption, and chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
good repose the while .
tis gone .
what ,  ho !
now all is well .
they did so ,  to the amazement of mine eyes that look'd upon't .
i gave him the stuff .
you are very sensible ,  and yet you miss my sense: i mean ,  hortensio is afeard of you .
but oh ,  how oddly will it sound that i must ask my child forgiveness !
call her forth to me .
i will assume desert:—give me a key for this, and instantly unlock my fortunes here.
they do offend our sight .
with all my heart ,  so thou canst get a wife .
nay ,  come ,  let’s go together .
ay ,  sir ,  for three months .
i wonder in my soul ,  what you would ask me ,  that i should deny ,  or stand so mammering on .
he hath the jewel of my life in hold ,  his youngest daughter ,  beautiful bianca ,  and her withholds from me and other more ,  suitors to her and rivals in my love ,  supposing it a thing impossible ,  for those defects i have before rehearsed ,  that ever katherina will be wooed .
tis a good silling ,  i warrant you ,  or i will change it .
he comes upon a wish .
with duty and desire we follow you.
i thank you for your pains .
a thousand times the worse, to want thy light!
yare!
cleopatra ,  catching but the least noise of this ,  dies instantly .
if you have any pity, grace, or manners, you would not make me such an argument.
here’s sport indeed !
with who?
o heavenly powers!
thus do i ever make my fool my purse; for i mine own gain'd knowledge should profane ,  if i would time expend with such a snipe but for my sport and profit .
that; and then, i grant, we put a sting in him that at his will he may do danger with.
what say you, james soundpost?
your wife ,  my lord ,  your true and loyal wife .
why in that rawness left you wife and child ,  those precious motives ,  those strong knots of love ,  without leave - taking ?
give me leave to speak my mind ,  and i will through and through cleanse the foul body of th' infected world ,  if they will patiently receive my medicine .
now ,  whether he kill cassio ,  or cassio him ,  or each do kill the other ,  every way makes my gain .
nay ,  then thou lov’st it not and all my pains is sorted to no proof .
you perhaps may think, because she is something lower than myself, that i can match her.
so .
i'll read the writing.
why ,  what an ass am i !
relent ,  and save your souls .
why doth the jew pause ?
we'll wait upon your lordship .
her speech is nothing ,  yet the unshaped use of it doth move the hearers to collection; they aim at it ,  and botch the words up fit to their own thoughts; which ,  as her winks and nods and gestures yield them ,  indeed would make one think there might be thought ,  though nothing sure ,  yet much unhappily .
i protest unto thee— good heart ,  and i' faith ,  i will tell her as much .
peter ,  take my fan ,  and go before ,  and apace .
lo, where it comes again!
zounds ,  i bleed still; i am hurt to the death .
and so ,  good capulet—which name i tender as dearly as my own—be satisfied .
surely ,  a princely testimony ,  a goodly count ,  count comfect ,  a sweet gallant ,  surely !
o, good my lord, i would speak a word with you!
and hell gnaw his bones !
how if she be black and witty?
by him that raised me to this careful height from that contented hap which i enjoyed ,  i never did incense his majesty against the duke of clarence ,  but have been an earnest advocate to plead for him .
it much would please him that of his fortunes you should make a staff to lean upon .
what he will do with it heaven knows ,  not i; i nothing but to please his fantasy .
so ,  adieu .
how chance the king comes with so small a train ?
ah ,  poor my lord ,  what tongue shall smooth thy name when i ,  thy three - hours’ wife ,  have mangled it ?
indeed she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
and so no doubt he is ,  my gracious madam .
write to him— i will subscribe—gentle adieus and greetings .
i know that virtue to be in you, brutus, as well as i do know your outward favor.
meantime ,  but think how i may do thee good ,  and be inheritor of thy desire .
the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it christian burial.
is he well shipp'd ?
pray god ,  sir ,  your wife send you not a worse .
what i am truly, is thine and my poor country's to command: whither indeed, before thy here-approach, old siward, with ten thousand warlike men, already at a point, was setting forth.
they ,  for their truth ,  might better wear their heads than some that have accused them wear their hats .
how appears the fight ?
thou most lying slave, whom stripes may move, not kindness!
your majesty ,  hear now ,  saving your majesty’s manhood ,  what an arrant ,  rascally ,  beggarly ,  lousy knave it is .
and leave us ,  publius ,  lest that the people rushing on us should do your age some mischief .
fare you well .
and strength shall help afford.
but new struck nine .
by heaven i charge thee speak!
my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge .
when laban and himself were compromis'd that all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied should fall ,  as jacob's hire; the ewes ,  being rank ,  in the end of autumn turned to the rams: and when the work of generation was ,  between these woolly breeders ,  in the act ,  the skilful shepherd pill'd me certain wands ,  and ,  in the doing of the deed of kind ,  he stuck them up before the fulsome ewes; who ,  then conceiving ,  did in eaning - time fall party - colour'd lambs ,  and those were jacob's .
my lady bade me tell you ,  that ,  though she harbors you as her kinsman ,  she’s nothing allied to your disorders .
the prince’s fool !
pish !
this was the most unkindest cut of all; for when the noble caesar saw him stab ,  ingratitude ,  more strong than traitors' arms ,  quite vanquish'd him .
niece ,  will you look to those things i told you of ?
you have been hotly call'd for; when ,  being not at your lodging to be found ,  the senate hath sent about three quests to search you out .
tis brief ,  my lord .
lechery, by this hand; an index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts.
it were well the general were put in mind of it .
these sentences, to sugar or to gall, being strong on both sides, are equivocal.
i pray thee, stay with us, go not to wittenberg.
and hath given countenance to his speech ,  my lord ,  with almost all the holy vows of heaven .
commend me to your honourable wife: tell her the process of antonio's end ,  say ,  how i lov'd you ,  speak me fair in death; and ,  when the tale is told ,  bid her be judge whether bassanio had not once a love .
heavenly powers ,  restore him !
a great suspicion!
and joy comes well in such a needy time.
to mourn a mischief that is past and gone is the next way to draw new mischief on .
not a hair perished; on their sustaining garments not a blemish ,  but fresher than before; and as thou bad'st me ,  in troops i have dispersed them ’bout the isle .
i know him well .
i have them ready .
the time ’twixt six and now must by us both be spent most preciously .
this is othello's ancient ,  as i take it .
before you can say  “ come ”  and  “ go ,  ”  and breathe twice and cry  “ so ,  so !  ”  each one ,  tripping on his toe ,
so is the dearest o' th' loss .
no ,  nor mine now .
what ill request did brutus make to thee ?
i must to england; you know that ?
catesby .
come between us ,  good benvolio .
is it e'en so ?
i would give you some violets, but they with- er'd all when my father died.
me ,  poor man ,  my library was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties he thinks me now incapable; confederates— so dry he was for sway—with the king of naples to give him annual tribute ,  do him homage ,  subject his coronet to his crown ,  and bend the dukedom ,  yet unbowed alas ,  poor milan ! — to most ignoble stooping .
i know thee well .
did ever dragon keep so fair a cave ?
you must not think then that i am drunk .
thou naughty knave ,  what trade ?
the queen ,  your mother ,  in most great affliction of spirit hath sent me to you .
what noise ?
they say there's but five upon this isle: we are three of them; if th'other two be brained like us, the state totters.
go a little before .
i am afraid he will chastise me .
your mind may change .
o lamentable day !
did you say all ?
out ,  loathèd medicine !
and by all means stir on the youth to an answer .
goes the king hence today ?
besides ,  she uses me with a more exalted respect than anyone else that follows her .
they in themselves, good-sooth, are too-too light.
i say she never did invent this letter .
i will plague them all ,  even to roaring .
women are made to bear ,  and so are you .
shylock ,  the world thinks ,  and i think so too ,  that thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice to the last hour of act; and then ,  'tis thought thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse ,  more strange than is thy strange apparent cruelty: and where thou now exact'st the penalty ,  (which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh , ) thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture ,  but ,  touch'd with human gentleness and love ,  forgive a moiety of the principal; glancing an eye of pity on his losses ,  that have of late so huddled on his back ,  enough to press a royal merchant down ,  and pluck commiseration of his state from brassy bosoms ,  and rough hearts of flint ,  from stubborn turks and tartars ,  never train'd to offices of tender courtesy .
tis true .
hamlet!
in such a night to shut me out !
a deed without a name .
with any strong or vehement importunity .
what’s your highness’ pleasure ?
let your wedding be tomorrow .
the king rises .
you both are rivals ,  and love hermia; and now both rivals ,  to mock helena .
it is too rough ,  too rude ,  too boisterous ,  and it pricks like thorn .
my brave spirit!
you will compel me ,  then ,  to read the will ?
my lord ?
soft ,  here follows prose .
therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt; be certain, nothing truer; 'tis no jest that i do hate thee and love helena.
he hath the falling sickness .
why ,  anything .
temperance was a delicate wench .
youth to itself rebels ,  though none else near .
tranio ,  you jest .
and will she love him still for prating?
she’s but the sign and semblance of her honor .
now ,  as thou lovest me ,  let me see his letter .
the heart is sorely charged.
i grant i am a woman, but withal a woman well reputed, cato's daughter.
what were his marks ?
i’ll have grounds more relative than this .
he's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies, is stab- bing.
who's here?
to this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
approach ,  my ariel ,  come !
bring me no more reports; let them fly all!
so long?
fill ,  lucius ,  till the wine o'erswell the cup .
touching our person ,  seek we no revenge ,  but we our kingdom’s safety must so tender ,  whose ruin you have sought ,  that to her laws we do deliver you .
a plague o' both your houses !
impudent strumpet !
thy grace shall have it .
and yet she’ll kneel and pray ,  i have seen her do ’t .
would not this ,  sir ,  and a forest of feathers—if the rest of my fortunes turn turk with me—with two provincial roses on my razed shoes ,  get me a fellowship in a cry of players ,  sir ?
e'en that.
tis since the earthquake now eleven years; and she was wean'd (i never shall forget it), of all the days of the year, upon that day; for i had then laid wormwood to my dug, sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall.
believe me, i cannot.
so shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means i shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most profitably removed, with- out the which there were no expectation of our prosperity.
for your part, to you our swords have leaden points, mark antony; our arms in strength of malice, and our hearts of brothers' temper, do receive you in with all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
men at some time are masters of their fates .
alack the day ,  i know you not ,  young gentleman .
yes, sir, i have indeed.
for ,  my good liege ,  she is so idly kinged ,  her scepter so fantastically borne by a vain ,  giddy ,  shallow ,  humorous youth ,  that fear attends her not .
i mean ,  in a sort .
ay ,  on my life ,  and hopes to find you forward upon his party for the gain thereof; and thereupon he sends you this good news ,  that this same very day your enemies ,  the kindred of the queen ,  must die at pomfret .
and so i shall catch the fly ,  your cousin ,  in the latter end and she must be blind too .
in what ,  my dear lord ?
that you should think, we come not to offend, but with good will.
and why ,  my lady wisdom ?
i pray you ,  is my master yet return'd ?
aside] fair encounter [aside] fair encounter of two most rare affections!
these be the christian husbands .
every offence is not a hate at first .
god keep your worship !
things growing are not ripe until their season; so i ,  being young ,  till now ripe not to reason; and touching now the point of human skill ,  reason becomes the marshal to my will ,  and leads me to your eyes ,  where i o'erlook love's stories ,  written in love's richest book .
an if thou could'st ,  thou could'st not make him live .
will not he ?
well said .
do but now promise ,  kate ,  you will endeavor for your french part of such a boy; and for my english moiety take the word of a king and a bachelor .
tis fit we understand them .
come ,  wait upon him .
thou art a strange fellow .
work on, my medicine, work!
was he a gentleman ?
the king would speak with cornwall .
i shall ,  my lord .
there are things in this comedy of pyramus and thisbe that will never please .
friends ,  begone .
what ,  what ,  good cheer !
i pray you .
what he hath uttered i have writ my sister .
what is the news ?
it is the most impenetrable cur that ever kept with men .
it is the lark that sings so out of tune ,  straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps .
thus i do escape the sorrow of antony’s death .
was this fair paper ,  this most goodly book ,  made to write  “ whore ”  upon ?
he thinks he still is at his instrument .
popilius lena speaks not of our purposes; for, look, he smiles, and caesar doth not change.
i know her answer .
go; i'll to dinner; hie you to the cell .
i did hear the galloping of horse .
i am about it; but indeed my invention comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze; it plucks out brains and all.
but fear not yet to take upon you what is yours.
a knave very voluble; no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane seeming ,  for the better com -  passing of his salt and most hidden loose affection ?
drown'd ,  drown'd .
ay ,  sir ,  but 'while the grass grows'—the proverb is something musty .
return with her ?
it is not for your health thus to commit your weak condition to the raw ,  cold morning .
how much unlike art thou mark antony !
sir ,  i will walk here in the hall .
and make him with fair ægles break his faith ,  with ariadne and antiopa ?
be factious for redress of all these griefs ,  and i will set this foot of mine as far as who goes farthest .
let's have no more of this; let's to our affairs .
come, my queen, take hands with me, and rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.
now, whether he kill cassio, or cassio him, or each do kill the other, every way makes my gain.
my lord of gloucester ,  i have too long borne your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs .
hadst thou done so ,  the kings that have revolted ,  and the soldier that has this morning left thee ,  would have still followed thy heels .
he left behind him myself and a sister ,  both born in an hour .
but while i say one prayer !
of the king’s ship ,  the mariners ,  say how thou hast disposed ,  and all the rest o' th' fleet .
nay, indeed, if you had your eyes you might fail of the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his own child.
we’ll hear it ,  antony .
a living drollery .
a more unhappy lady ,  if this division chance ,  ne’er stood between ,  praying for both parts .
i have inly wept ,  or should have spoke ere this .
what hour now?
ah ,  this thou shouldst have done and not have spoke on ’t !
give me your neaf ,  monsieur mustardseed .
know ,  my long lord ,  the marquess dorset ,  as i hear ,  is fled to richmond ,  in the parts where he abides .
stand not amazed .
how, how, how, how, choplogic?
farewell ,  ophelia ,  and remember well what i have said to you .
but is this law?
i look down towards his feet; but that's a fable .
i would not be delay'd .
mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
sir ,  i am vexed .
vows, to the blackest devil!
and so will i .
and will he not come again ?
i’ll fight till from my bones my flesh be hacked .
i could find in my heart to beat him— come ,  kiss .
therefore no more ,  but to the matter !
sweet remembrancer!
i will be brief, for my short date of breath is not so long as is a tedious tale.
and badest me bury love .
all this my sister is ,  or else should be .
would you were not sick !
i know that we shall have him well to friend.
dear love ,  adieu . — anon ,  good nurse ! —sweet montague ,  be true .
this passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go near to make a man look sad.
are you native of this place ?
wilt come ?
this dagger hath mista'en, for, lo, his house is empty on the back of montague, and it missheathed in my daughter's bosom!
had i three ears, i'd hear thee.
i wish you all joy of the worm .
by my head ,  here come the capulets .
why does the drum come hither?
what is your pleasure, madam?
a most scurvy monster .
thanks for that.
i am unfortunate in the infirmity, and dare not task my weakness with any more.
gracious ,  so please you ,  we will bestow ourselves .
first ,  as you know ,  my house within the city is richly furnishèd with plate and gold ,  basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands; my hangings all of tyrian tapestry ,  in ivory coffers i have stuffed my crowns ,  in cypress chests my arras counterpoints ,  costly apparel ,  tents ,  and canopies ,  fine linen ,  turkey cushions bossed with pearl ,  valance of venice gold in needlework ,  pewter and brass ,  and all things that belong to house or housekeeping .
well ,  let’s away and say how much is done .
what now ,  lucillius ?
tell me, daughter juliet, how stands your disposition to be married?
oh ,  fie upon thee ,  strumpet !
an if you plead as well for them as i can say  “ nay ”  to thee for myself ,  no doubt we bring it to a happy issue .
to alonso] is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day [to alonso] is not, sir, my i wore it?
i will not speak with her .
to brutus' ,  to cassius' ,  burn all .
hark further .
i crave the law ,  the penalty and forfeit of my bond .
alack, sir, i am sand-blind, i know you not.
is your name shylock?
if not ,  i’ll die your maid .
nor stony tower ,  nor walls of beaten brass ,  nor airless dungeon ,  nor strong links of iron ,  can be retentive to the strength of spirit; but life ,  being weary of these worldly bars ,  never lacks power to dismiss itself .
for my part ,  i have walked about the streets ,  submitting me unto the perilous night ,  and ,  thus unbracèd ,  casca ,  as you see ,  have bared my bosom to the thunder - stone .
know you not ,  master ,  to some kind of men their graces serve them but as enemies ?
by whose direction found'st thou out this place?
i’ll give you a verse to this note that i made yesterday in despite of my invention .
go you down that way towards the capitol .
most mighty caesar, let me know some cause, lest i be laugh'd at when i tell them so.
give me thy hand .
that petruchio came ?
there are things in this comedy of pyramus and thisbe that will never please.
i come to thee for charitable license ,  that we may wander o'er this bloody field to book our dead and then to bury them; to sort our nobles from our common men ,  for many of our princes—woe the while ! — lie drowned and soaked in mercenary blood .
friendship is constant in all other things save in the office and affairs of love .
who chooseth me, shall get as much as he deserves.
stay illusion!
how say you ,  signior gremio ?
when they will not give a dolt to relieve a lame beggar ,  they will lay out ten to see a dead indian .
i frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
what is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness ?
came they not by you ?
dost thou understand me ,  man ?
how say you by the french lord, monsieur le bon?
why art thou angry ?
therefore use thy discretion .
so every bondman in his own hand bears the power to cancel his captivity .
who could refrain, that had a heart to love, and in that heart courage to make's love known?
sir, this report of his did hamlet so envenom with his envy that he could nothing do but wish and beg your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
what mean you ,  caesar ?
alack ,  for mercy !
kill claudio .
he named sebastian .
think upon these gone .
thou shalt not from this grove till i torment thee for this injury . — my gentle puck ,  come hither .
my husband!
he may command me as my sovereign ,  but you have power in me as in a kinsman .
hark, a word with you.
the time is free.
o me !
i’ll mark the play .
sovereign, here lies the county paris slain; and romeo dead; and juliet, dead before, warm and new kill'd.
is ’t not the king ?
my friend ,  thy husband ,  honest ,  honest iago .
why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes ?
let me see .
but well and free ,  if thou so yield him ,  there is gold ,  and here my bluest veins to kiss—a hand that kings have lipped ,  and trembled kissing .
i would they’d fight i’ th’ fire or i’ th’ air ,  we’d fight there too .
she was here even now; she haunts me in every place .
leonato and his brother .
i say, amen.
indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
the patch is kind enough ,  but a huge feeder ,  snail - slow in profit ,  and he sleeps by day more than the wildcat .
for my part, i do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
farewell .
you shall play it in a mask ,  and you may speak as small as you will .
he is as disproportioned in his manners as in his shape . — take with you your companions .
fast asleep ?
hark you ,  sir .
let the galled jade winch; our withers are unwrung .
what say’st thou ,  noble heart ?
no ,  it begins again .
rude am i in my speech, and little blest with the soft phrase of peace; for since these arms of mine had seven years' pith, till now some nine moons wasted, they have used their dearest action in the tented field, and little of this great world can i speak, more than pertains to feats of broil and battle; and therefore little shall i grace my cause in speaking for myself.
he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
have you heard the argument ?
my fan, peter.
why ,  what’s the matter ?
hoo !
wherefore ?
hear me ,  for i will speak .
nay ,  yet there’s more in this .
i would he knew that i had saved his brother .
the ides of march are come .
against my will i am sent to bid you come in to dinner .  ”  there’s a double meaning in that .
and most chirurgeonly .
come ,  sit down ,  every mother’s son ,  and rehearse your parts . —pyramus ,  you begin .
we coted them on the way ,  and hither are they com -  ing to offer you service .
look to ’t ,  i charge you .
how many months do you desire ?
horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd this, give these fellows some means to the king.
be not you ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
set down ,  set down your honorable load ,  if honor may be shrouded in a hearse ,  whilst i awhile obsequiously lament th' untimely fall of virtuous lancaster .
i am in your debt for your last exercise .
who ?
but, sir, such answer as i can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say, my mother.
tis he.
i remember thine eyes well enough .
go before, nurse.
hence, and stand aloof.
as long as heaven and nature lengthens it .
very well .
oh, oh, oh!
bid that welcome which comes to punish us ,  and we punish it ,  seeming to bear it lightly .
the question of his death is enrolled in the capitol, his glory not extenuated, wherein he was worthy, nor his offenses enforced, for which he suffered death.
what is your will ,  sir ,  that you send for me ?
worthy prince ,  i know ’t .
forgive me ,  cousin .
is love a tender thing ?
the man that hath no music in himself, nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet sounds, is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils; the motions of his spirit are dull as night, and his affections dark as erebus: let no such man be trusted.—mark the music.
for michael cassio ,  i dare be sworn ,  i think ,  that he is honest .
was i with you there for the goose ?
go ,  go ,  dispatch .
here's yet some liquor left .
yare ,  yare !
if i do find him fit, i'll move your suit, and seek to effect it to my uttermost.
upon my life ,  my lord ,  i’ll undertake it .
we will hear caesar’s will .
but wilt thou hear me how i did proceed ?
i know not.
o wonder!
he did appoint so .
were they not forced with those that should be ours, we might have met them dareful, beard to beard, and beat them backward home.
robin, take off this head.
is it not like the king ?
lo !
run to your houses, fall upon your knees, pray to the gods to intermit the plague that needs must light on this ingratitude.
o my fair warrior !
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
and what of him ,  tranio ?
stop it ,  marcellus !
i pray you ,  fail me not .
swear .
i'll be with thee straight .
what wood is this before us ?
i'll go no further .
ah ,  for my husband ,  for my dear lord edward !
i may not leave it so .
therefore ,  my lords ,  omit no happy hour that may give furth'rance to our expedition; for we have now no thought in us but france ,  save those to god ,  that run before our business .
my mistress with a monster is in love .
why, anything; an honorable murderer, if you will, for nought did i in hate, but all in honor.
we would so ,  and then go a - batfowling .
and look where publius is come to fetch me .
worthy cawdor !
why should he stay whom love doth press to go?
four days will quickly steep themselves in night .
i know he would not be a wolf but that he sees the romans are but sheep .
where shall we go ?
lady ,  amen .
come ,  let me have a bigger .
thou shalt know the man by the athenian garments he hath on.
a sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats, of double ducats, stol'n from me by my daughter!
hail ,  king of scotland !
now cracks a noble heart .
faith ,  here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale ,  who committed treason enough for god's sake ,  yet could not equivocate to heaven .
tis certain he hath passed the river somme .
faith ,  i have heard too much ,  for your words and per -  formances are no kin together .
come, we'll to sleep.
and, i'll warrant her, full of game.
and stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall.
what a sleep were this for your advancement !
for if she be not honest, chaste, and true, there's no man happy; the purest of their wives is foul as slander.
sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell: ding dong.
till then, enough.
susan and she—god rest all christian souls ! — were of an age .
he will not fight with me ,  domitius ?
who ever knew the heavens menace so ?
pass !
youngling ,  thou canst not love so dear as i .    graybeard ,  thy love doth freeze .
not having that which ,  having ,  makes them short .
but, o vain boast!
no ,  truly ,  unless thou wert hard - favored ,  for honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar .
he ,  woman .
to bear all smooth and even, this sudden sending him away must seem deliberate pause.
talk you of killing?
your wife would give you little thanks for that if she were by to hear you make the offer .
rebels it at these years ?
give me those flowers .
what a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit !
if i do find him fit ,  i'll move your suit ,  and seek to effect it to my uttermost .
nor have we herein barr'd your better wisdoms ,  which have freely gone with this affair along .
sirs, stand you all without.
quickly send— be brief in it—to th' castle ,  for my writ is on the life of lear and on cordelia .
now god in heaven bless thee!
never talk to me .
i have been talking with a suitor here ,  a man that languishes in your displeasure .
who shall begin ?
by heaven ,  you do me wrong !
zounds ,  hold your peace .
i thank you ,  madam: give welcome to my friend . — this is the man ,  this is antonio ,  to whom i am so infinitely bound .
yet thou liest in the bleak air .
i prithee ,  pretty youth ,  let me be better acquainted with thee .
here comes one .
none but the fool ,  who labors to outjest his heart - struck injuries .
o villainous !
her vine ,  the merry cheerer of the heart ,  unprunèd ,  dies .
a southwest blow on ye and blister you all o'er !
tis now but four o'clock .
but yet i’ll make assurance double sure ,  and take a bond of fate .
what is it that they do when they change us for others?
and i ,  my royal sovereign .
if i did take the kingdom from your sons ,  to make amends i’ll give it to your daughter .
i peace !
what have you ,  my good friends ,  deserved at the hands of fortune that she sends you to prison hither ?
but all remember what you have said ,  and show yourselves true romans .
yet but three ?
for my part ,  i am so attired in wonder i know not what to say .
enobarbus ,  antony hath after thee sent all thy treasure ,  with his bounty overplus .
yes ,  sir ,  i have indeed .
but hear you: methought you said ,  you neither lend nor borrow ,  upon advantage .
where art thou ,  death ?
o ,  what a rash and bloody deed is this !
they bleed on both sides.
for i am he am born to tame you ,  kate ,  and bring you from a wild kate to a kate conformable as other household kates .
grandam ,  his nurse .
but ,  my good lord ,  this boy is forest - born and hath been tutored in the rudiments of many desperate studies by his uncle ,  whom he reports to be a great magician obscurèd in the circle of this forest .
i dare damnation .
my love doth so approve him, that even his stubbornness, his checks, his frowns— prithee, unpin me—have grace and favor in them.
thrift ,  thrift ,  horatio .
the basest horn of his hoof is more musical than the pipe of hermes .
no ,  sir ,  their hats are pluck'd about their ears ,  and half their faces buried in their cloaks ,  that by no means i may discover them by any mark of favor .
tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
here i’ll sit i' th' midst .
with all my heart, sir.
o ,  what more favor can i do to thee ,  than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain to sunder his that was thine enemy ?
so do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs in blood of princes ,  and the wounded steeds fret fetlock deep in gore ,  and with wild rage yerk out their armèd heels at their dead masters ,  killing them twice .
therefore make space enough between you .
madam ,  the guests are come ,  supper serv'd up ,  you call'd ,  my young lady ask'd for ,  the nurse curs'd in the pantry ,  and everything in extremity .
is your englishman so expert in his drinking ?
a guiltless death i die.
so was i when your highness took his dukedom .
who cannot want the thought how monstrous it was for malcolm and for donalbain to kill their gracious father ?
murder!
for doting ,  not for loving ,  pupil mine .
make all the money thou canst .
o, by this count i shall be much in years ere i again behold my romeo!
you shall ,  mark antony .
but tell not me .
i think she stirs again.
the manner of their deaths ?
thou losest labor.
both of you know banquo was your enemy .
i do not know dat .
this disease is beyond my practice.
my dearest cousin and my dearer lord ?
o ,  here they come .
and what have kings that privates have not too ,  save ceremony ,  save general ceremony ?
when he came to himself again, he said, if he had done or said any thing amiss, he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity.
who can control his fate?
didst thou see any thing?
ready .
well ,  thou dost best .
marry ,  how ?
what is my name?
here come the lovers ,  full of joy and mirth . — joy ,  gentle friends !
od’s lifelings ,  here he is ! —you broke my head for nothing ,  and that that i did ,  i was set on to do ’t by sir toby .
is that the chain you promised me today ?
some o’ their plants are ill - rooted already .
alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
i was too young that time to value her ,  but now i know her .
his eyes are humbler than they used to be .
he no more shall see my face .
you shall not in your funeral speech blame us ,  but speak all good you can devise of caesar ,  and say you do't by our permission ,  else shall you not have any hand at all about his funeral .
now she’s gone for ever . — cordelia ,  cordelia ,  stay a little .
o, what learning is!
faith ,  her privates we .
anon comes one with light to ope the tomb; and by - and - by my master drew on him; and then i ran away to call the watch .
and you the judges ,  bear a wary eye .
send thy man away.
he cannot flatter ,  he .
come hither; i am here.
or to be naked with her friend in bed an hour or more ,  not meaning any harm ?
and let us do it with no show of fear ,  no ,  with no more than if we heard that england were busied with a whitsun morris - dance .
a very pleasing night to honest men .
i am indeed ,  sir ,  a surgeon to old shoes; when they are in great danger ,  i recover them .
let them go .
who knows if donalbain be with his brother ?
we'll e'en to't like french falconers ,  fly at any thing we see .
o wherefore ,  nature ,  didst thou lions frame ?
when it is lighted ,  come and call me here .
the death of antony is not a single doom .
then have my lips the sin that they have took.
how  “ strangely ”  ?
the mighty gods defend thee !
this ensign here of mine was turning back; i slew the coward, and did take it from him.
he does well to commend it himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
so ,  so ,  so ,  so .
tybalt ,  the kinsman to old capulet ,  hath sent a letter to his father's house .
and so his knell is knoll'd .
a lover, that kills himself most gallant for love.
all's well now, sweeting; come away to bed.
well roared ,  lion !
the less they deserve ,  the more merit is in your bounty .
he only in a general honest thought and common good to all ,  made one of them .
home, you idle creatures, get you home.
some oracle must rectify our knowledge .
that’s my sister .
doth sway my life .  ”  nay ,  but first ,  let me see ,  let me see ,  let me see .
room for antony, most noble antony.
and yet i would not be thee ,  nuncle .
peace!
to be now a sensible man, by and by a fool, and presently a beast!
tis since the earthquake now eleven years ,  and she was weaned—i never shall forget it— of all the days of the year ,  upon that day .
thou knowest the mask of night is on my face; else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek for that which thou hast heard me speak to - night .
wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile .
good hermia, do not be so bitter with me.
it beckons you to go away with it ,  as if it some impartment did desire to you alone .
if your love do not persuade you to come ,  let not my letter .  ”  o love ,  dispatch all business and be gone !
but are they, ariel, safe?
i care not for good life .
when i have fought with the men ,  i will be civil with the maids; i will cut off their heads .
i have more care to stay than will to go .
i pay thy poverty and not thy will.
send thy token of reprieve .
choose your revenge yourself .
oh ,  the cry did knock against my very heart !
tis call'd the evil: a most miraculous work in this good king, which often, since my here-remain in england, i have seen him do.
but that i am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison-house, i could a tale unfold whose lightest word would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood, make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres, thy knotted and combined locks to part, and each particular hair to stand an end like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
finding ourselves too slow of sail ,  we put on a compelled valour ,  and in the grapple i boarded them .
and that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee for false forswearing and for murder too .
hang thou there upon the tomb ,  praising her when i am dumb .
the bloody proclamation to escape ,  that followed me so near—o our lives' sweetness ,
that’s strange .
see how beastly she doth court him !
and let his knights have colder looks among you .
county claudio ,  when mean you to go to church ?
do not deny to him that you love me .
good even to my ghostly confessor .
hold ,  sir ,  or i’ll throw your dagger o'er the house .
nay ,  for a need ,  thus far come near my person: tell them when that my mother went with child of that insatiate edward ,  noble york my princely father then had wars in france ,  and ,  by true computation of the time ,  found that the issue was not his begot ,  which well appearèd in his lineaments ,  being nothing like the noble duke my father .
patience ,  i pray you !
the king and prince at prayers !
o ,  look !
lay forth the gown .
i speak no treason .
he hath an argosy bound to tripolis ,  another to the indies .
oh ,  treble woe fall ten times treble on that cursèd head ,  whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense deprived thee of !
if in naples i should report this now, would they believe me’ if i should say i saw such islanders?
then stand with us .
we have beat him to his camp .
by heaven ,  i'll make a ghost of him that lets me .
speak to her ,  hamlet .
this love that thou hast shown doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
god save the king !
antonio and old shylock, both stand forth.
methinks i have a great desire to a bottle of hay.
if thou didst ever hold me in thy heart absent thee from felicity a while ,  and in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain to tell my story .
and say besides that in aleppo once ,  where a malignant and a turbaned turk beat a venetian and traduced the state ,  i took by the throat the circumcisèd dog ,  and smote him ,  thus .
that, sir, which i will not report after her.
there is no other way ,  unless thou couldst put on some other shape and not be richard ,  that hath done all this .
no ,  you shall pardon me .
murder !
ay ,  madam .
lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed.
is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
a touch, a touch; i do confess.
i hope so .
good norfolk ,  hie thee to thy charge .
now would i give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground—long heath ,  brown furze ,  anything .
know you what caesar means to do with me ?
and slay thy lady that in thy life lives, by doing damned hate upon thyself?
my honoured lord!
doubt thou the stars are fire; doubt that the sun doth move; doubt truth to be a liar; but never doubt i love.
oh ,  thou art deceived .
o, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
the first interr'gatory that my nerissa shall be sworn on is whether till the next night she had rather stay ,  or go to bed now ,  being two hours to day .
whiles i see lives ,  the gashes do better upon them .
there is not enough leek to swear by .
a credulous father ,  and a brother noble— whose nature is so far from doing harms that he suspects none ,  on whose foolish honesty my practices ride easy .
good sir ,  whose powers are these ?
yea , ’ quoth my husband ,  ‘fall'st upon thy face ?
fall and cease .
in love ?
you have done well by water .
how is it with you, lady?
and for his cowardship ,  ask fabian .
i think nothing, my lord.
bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud; else would i tear the cave where echo lies, and make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine with repetition of my romeo's name.
you shall have leave.
leave me ,  i pray ,  a little .
or as ’twere perfumed by a fen .
my father capulet will have it so ,  and i am nothing slow to slack his haste .
fie upon thee !
hold him in safety till the prince come hither.
is not that he that lies upon the ground ?
now ,  when the bridegroom in the morning comes to rouse thee from thy bed ,  there art thou dead .
where the place ?
do you love me ?
o thou dull moor !
fie ,  fie ,  thou shamest thy shape ,  thy love ,  thy wit ,  which ,  like a usurer ,  abound’st in all and usest none in that true use indeed which should bedeck thy shape ,  thy love ,  thy wit .
though now we must appear bloody and cruel, as, by our hands and this our present act, you see we do, yet see you but our hands and this the bleeding business they have done.
fool !
peter, take my fan, and go before, and apace.
i mean ,  an we be in choler ,  we’ll draw .
who stays it still withal ?
is't far you ride?
he might have chid me so ,  for ,  in good faith ,  i am a child to chiding .
tis no less, i tell ye; for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon.
i think there’s never a man in christendom can lesser hide his love or hate than he ,  for by his face straight shall you know his heart .
since his majesty went into the field ,  i have seen her rise from her bed ,  throw her nightgown upon her ,  unlock her closet ,  take forth paper ,  fold it ,  write upon't ,  read it ,  afterwards seal it ,  and again return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep .
i might have saved her .
it is so too.
tell me but this; have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand?
but wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens?
i knew him ,  horatio: a fellow of infinite jest ,  of most excellent fancy .
we must obey the time .
i loved ophelia .
twere best he speak no harm of brutus here .
and i do not doubt but to hear them say ,   “ it is a sweet comedy .  ”  no more words .
the very place puts toys of desperation ,  without more motive ,  into every brain that looks so many fathoms to the sea and hears it roar beneath .
if not ,  he’s plain .
i will have such revenges on you both that all the world shall—i will do such things— what they are yet i know not ,  but they shall be the terrors of the earth .
lord edmund spake not with your lord at home ?
claribel .
horatio, thou art e'en as just a man as e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
do i entice you?
thou dost snore distinctly; there's meaning in thy snores .
and so in me ,  and so ,  i think ,  in all .
i shall be much bound to you for ’t .
or would you have me speak after my custom ,  as being a professed tyrant to their sex ?
i have a good eye ,  uncle .
look thou but sweet ,  and i am proof against their enmity .
but hast thou yet latch'd the athenian's eyes with the love - juice ,  as i did bid thee do ?
fine apparition!
where’s monsieur mustardseed ?
by the mass ,  and 'tis like a camel ,  indeed .
o good iago, what shall i do to win my lord again?
i am no child ,  no babe .
sinful macduff, they were all struck for thee!
where are these lads?
romeo ,  i come !
be not acknown on't; i have use for it.
he that is giddy thinks the world turns round ” — i pray you ,  tell me what you meant by that .
macbeth !
where are all the rest?
for no man ,  sir .
what ,  thou speak'st drowsily ?
thanks to your majesty .
tis most true ,  and he beseeched me to entreat your majesties to hear and see the matter .
you cram these words into mine ears against the stomach of my sense .
natures of such deep trust we shall much need .
come ,  bring me unto my chance .
patience ,  i say; your mind perhaps may change .
most holy and religious fear it is to keep those many many bodies safe that live and feed upon your majesty.
the ditty does remember my drowned father .
in faith ,  he's penitent; and yet his trespass ,  in our common reason— save that ,  they say ,  the wars must make examples out of their best—is not almost a fault to incur a private check .
i go .
now ,  my lord ,  what shall we do ,  if we perceive lord hastings will not yield to our complots ?
look upon caesar .
what shall i do ?
why ,  then ,  'tis hers ,  my lord ,  and being hers ,  she may ,  i think ,  bestow't on any man .
so thou mayst say the king lies by a beggar if a beggar dwell near him ,  or the church stands by thy tabor ,  if thy tabor stand by the church .
have you heard the argument?
for i have seen more years ,  i’m sure ,  than ye .
see ,  it stalks away .
divinity of hell !
what news ,  what news in this our tott'ring state ?
i know thou wilt say ‘ay’; and i will take thy word.
whereat grieved— that so his sickness ,  age ,  and impotence was falsely borne in hand—sends out arrests on fortinbras ,  which he ,  in brief ,  obeys ,  receives rebuke from norway ,  and in fine makes vow before his uncle never more to give th' assay of arms against your majesty .
i hear him coming.
now ,  by the world ,  it is a lusty wench .
what's the business ,  that such a hideous trumpet calls to parley the sleepers of the house ?
but that i am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison - house ,  i could a tale unfold whose lightest word would harrow up thy soul ,  freeze thy young blood ,  make thy two eyes ,  like stars ,  start from their spheres ,  thy knotted and combined locks to part ,  and each particular hair to stand an end like quills upon the fretful porpentine .
did this in caesar seem ambitious ?
so kind a father ! —be my horses ready ?
would that fault were mine !
we'll not run ,  monsieur monster .
ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lantern ,  and say he comes to disfigure ,  or to present ,  the person of moonshine .
i am too sore enpierced with his shaft to soar with his light feathers; and so bound i cannot bound a pitch above dull woe.
but ,  good my brother ,  do not ,  as some ungracious pastors do ,  show me the steep and thorny way to heaven ,  whilst ,  like a puff'd and reckless libertine ,  himself the primrose path of dalliance treads and recks not his own rede .
quite dumb ?
if she find him not, to england send him; or confine him where your wisdom best shall think.
when thou wakest ,  if she be by ,  beg of her for remedy .
when the wind is southerly i know a hawk from a handsaw .
now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die .
why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that rosaline, torments him so that he will sure run mad.
what do you call the play?
bring them before us .
look where it comes again !
i have more care to stay than will to go.
mine ear is much enamored of thy note; so is mine eye enthralled to thy shape; and thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me, on the first view to say, to swear, i love thee.
beguiled ,  divorcèd ,  wrongèd ,  spited ,  slain !
i have made you mad ,  and even with suchlike valour men hang and drown their proper selves .
i am tame ,  sir .
my lady!
never trust me ,  then .
what is between you?
his beard was as white as snow ,  all flaxen was his poll .
women’s gentle brain could not drop forth such giant - rude invention ,  such ethiop words ,  blacker in their effect than in their countenance .
for the which, as i told you, antonio shall be bound.
yes ,  shylock ,  i will seal unto this bond .
dead ,  i think . —help ,  uncle ! — hero ,  why ,  hero !
when spake i such a word ?
but this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband .
vouchsafe to wear this ring .
by what rule ,  sir ?
hence, horrible shadow!
i told him you were sick .
his life was gentle ,  and the elements so mixed in him that nature might stand up and say to all the world ,   “ this was a man .  ”  according to his virtue let us use him ,  with all respect and rites of burial .
these fifteen years you have been in a dream or ,  when you waked ,  so waked as if you slept .
some grief shows much of love; but much of grief shows still some want of wit.
sure, he that made us with such large discourse, looking before and after, gave us not that capability and godlike reason to fust in us unused.
but life ,  being weary of these worldly bars ,  never lacks power to dismiss itself .
it shall be said his judgment ruled our hands .
father ,  ’tis thus: yourself and all the world that talked of her have talked amiss of her .
ay ,  master .
and did they bid you tell her of it ,  madam ?
o ,  fie upon thee ,  slanderer !
but manhood is melted into curtsies ,  valor into compliment ,  and men are only turned into tongue ,  and trim ones too .
i must obey .
thou sing’st sweet music .
we have willing dames enough; there cannot be that vulture in you, to devour so many as will to greatness dedicate themselves, finding it so inclined.
it is with a good will .
who does do you wrong ?
what treasure had he ,  my lord ?
madam ,  here comes my lord .
twould anger him to raise a spirit in his mistress’ circle of some strange nature ,  letting it there stand till she had laid it and conjur'd it down .
but yet i cannot love him; he might have took his answer long ago .
your father was ever virtuous; and holy men at their death have good inspirations; therefore ,  the lottery that he hath devised in these three chests ,  of gold ,  silver ,  and lead ,  (whereof who chooses his meaning chooses you , ) will ,  no doubt ,  never be chosen by any rightly ,  but one who you shall rightly love .
do not, my lord!
more than prince of cats, i can tell you.
to choose love by another's eyes.
but ,  for your conscience ?
ay ,  that he did .
i will be satisfied !
before the time be out ?
let us all embrace .
but is it true ,  salerio ?
how many times shall caesar bleed in sport, that now on pompey's basis lies along no worthier than the dust!
i'll follow, stephano.
no ,  not for venice .
for a fish without a fin ,  there’s a fowl without a feather . —   go ,  get thee gone .
is this the noble moor whom our full senate call all in all sufficient ?
tis far off, and rather like a dream than an assurance that my remembrance warrants.
you do impeach your modesty too much to leave the city and commit yourself into the hands of one that loves you not; to trust the opportunity of night, and the ill counsel of a desert place, with the rich worth of your virginity.
thou art translated .
let’s tonight be bounteous at our meal .
if love be blind ,  love cannot hit the mark .
he is wise ,  and ,  on my life ,  hath stol'n him home to bed .
the ditty does remember my drowned father .
if i do find him fit ,  i’ll move your suit and seek to effect it to my uttermost .
edmund i think is gone in pity of his misery to dispatch his nighted life; moreover to descry the strength o' th' enemy .
tell me what more thou know’st .
well, in that hit you miss.
take him hence .
live ,  and be prosperous; and farewell ,  good fellow .
ah, juliet, if the measure of thy joy be heap'd like mine, and that thy skill be more to blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath this neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue unfold the imagin'd happiness that both receive in either by this dear encounter.
if this be known ,  cassius or caesar never shall turn back ,  for i will slay myself .
he hath some meaning in his mad attire .
leave her to heaven, and to those thorns that in her bosom lodge to prick and sting her.
look ,  love ,  what envious streaks do lace the severing clouds in yonder east .
thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet ,  or a hat ,  or a cloak ,  is nothing to a man .
here’s neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all .
my countrymen— peace!
awake ,  i say !
which they will make an obedient father .
thieves !
out ,  treacherous villain !
wakes) when my cue comes ,  call me ,  and i will answer .
i am informèd thoroughly of the cause .
who maintains 'em ?
by heaven ,  it is as proper to our age to cast beyond ourselves in our opinions as it is common for the younger sort to lack discretion .
here’s goodly gear .
of the king's ship ,  the mariners ,  say how thou hast disposed ,  and all the rest o'th’ fleet .
an thou hadst been set i' th' stocks for that question ,  thou’dst well deserved it .
we will persuade him ,  be it possible ,  to put on better ere he go to church .
who are you ?
yes ,  yes ,  it was bassanio; as i think ,  so was he called .
some innocents ’scape not the thunderbolt .
knock knock knock, knock!
farewell ,  thou lob of spirits; i'll be gone .
if you be not mad ,  be gone .
how came you to this ?
alas ,  i am the mother of these griefs .
what's the matter with thee now?
art thou my son ?
nay ,  then i must have an ounce or two of this malapert blood from you .
with all my heart, and it doth much content me to hear him so inclin'd.
were you a woman ,  as the rest goes even ,  i should my tears let fall upon your cheek and say  “ thrice - welcome ,  drownèd viola !  ”  my father had a mole upon his brow .
i will make fast the doors, and gild myself with some more ducats, and be with you straight.
not?
i think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence ,  and discourse grow commendable in none only but parrots .
what ,  mistress !
either there is a civil strife in heaven ,  or else the world ,  too saucy with the gods ,  incenses them to send destruction .
there is no more to say ?
will you lead ,  lords ?
tis now near night.
sirrah young gamester ,  your father were a fool to give thee all and in his waning age set foot under thy table .
he hath lost his fellows, and strays about to find ’em i might call him a thing divine, for nothing natural i ever saw so noble.
o villain ,  villain ,  smiling ,  damnèd villain !
bear welcome in your eye ,  your hand ,  your tongue .
thou shalt get kings ,  though thou be none .
here is the scroll of every man's name ,  which is thought fit ,  through all athens ,  to play in our interlude before the duke and the duchess on his wedding - day at night .
my lord !
i am sorry they offend you, heartily; yes, faith, heartily.
ay ,  indeed !
no ,  i warrant your grace you shall not entreat him to a second ,  that have so mightily persuaded him from a first .
tis a brave army ,  and full of purpose .
so may it be indeed .
even he ,  sir .
fortune forbid my outside have not charmed her !
be choked with such another emphasis !
but i have words that would be howl'd out in the desert air, where hearing should not latch them.
give me that mattock and the wrenching iron .
first ,  pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself; which the ladies cannot abide .
i'll read the writing .
we trifle time; i pray thee pursue sentence .
nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass, nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron, can be retentive to the strength of spirit; but life, being weary of these worldly bars, never lacks power to dismiss itself.
they are sick ?
why ,  go to bed and sleep .
peace ,  and be still !
who is't that cried!
these ears of mine ,  thou know’st did hear thee .
so will you wish on me when the rash mood is on .
prithee, emilia, go know of cassio where he supp'd tonight.
do not ,  phoebe .
seafaring men, sir.
but, orderly to end where i begun, our wills and fates do so contrary run that our devices still are overthrown; our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
brave son, derived from honorable loins!
o ,  the more angel she ,  and you the blacker devil !
get thee gone ,  but do it .
amen .
the dead man's knell is there scarce ask'd for who ,  and good men's lives expire before the flowers in their caps ,  dying or ere they sicken .
cowards die many times before their deaths .
he hath honored me of late ,  and i have bought golden opinions from all sorts of people ,  which would be worn now in their newest gloss ,  not cast aside so soon .
how now, roderigo!
why ,  how now ,  count ,  wherefore are you sad ?
for brutus' sake ,  i am beholding to you .
my love is thine to teach .
or neither ?
heartily farewell .
he lies tonight within seven leagues of rome.
methought i heard a voice cry ,   “ sleep no more !
good .
sir ,  do you know me ?
conceit upon her father .
that cannot be ,  since i am still possessed of those effects for which i did the murder: my crown ,  mine own ambition ,  and my queen .
no ,  cassius ,  for the eye sees not itself but by reflection ,  by some other things .
here on her breast there is a vent of blood ,  and something blown .
ay ,  by my troth ,  the case may be amended .
marry ,  heaven forbid !
how say you by this change?
but indeed an old religious uncle of mine taught me to speak ,  who was in his youth an inland man ,  one that knew courtship too well ,  for there he fell in love .
more of this matter cannot i report.
but you ,  sir ,  altered that ,  for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was my sister drowned .
her name is katherina minola ,  renowned in padua for her scolding tongue .
the transgression is in the stealer .
why ,  you were with him ,  were you not ?
my lord?
she hath prevented me .
before and apace .
knock ,  knock ,  knock !
do i so ?
as i remember ,  this should be the house .
but ,  sirrah ,  not for my sake ,  but your master’s ,  i advise you use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies .
caesar ,  thy thoughts touch their effects in this .
the one i'll slay ,  the other slayeth me .
o most unhappy day !
write them together ,  yours is as fair a name .
but o, how oddly will it sound that i must ask my child forgiveness!
what man is there so much unreasonable ,  if you had pleas'd to have defended it with any terms of zeal ,  wanted the modesty to urge the thing held as a ceremony ?
go release them, ariel.
come ,  woo me ,  woo me ,  for now i am in a holiday humor ,  and like enough to consent .
thou art a fool .
how does the queen ?
what else ?
what ,  paris too ?
but then i saw no harm, and then i heard each syllable that breath made up between them.
sir ,  i commend you to your own content .
no .
ay ,  my good lord .
i tell thee ,  i ,  that thou hast marred her gown .
why i should fear i know not ,  since guiltiness i know not .
now heaven hath all ,
but not by him!
look how she rubs her hands .
my life were better ended by their hate than death proroguèd ,  wanting of thy love .
octavius ,  lead your battle softly on ,  upon the left hand of the even field .
o wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother!
pray you ,  let’s have no more fooling about it ,  but give me your blessing .
i will be gone ,  sir ,  and not trouble you .
could you on this fair mountain leave to feed, and batten on this moor?
speak within door.
this my mean task would be as heavy to me as odious ,  but the mistress which i serve quickens what’s dead and makes my labors pleasures .
i would i could see this taborer .
tell us the manner of it ,  gentle casca .
to his good friends thus wide i'll ope my arms and, like the kind life-rendering pelican, repast them with my blood.
farewell .
he will ,  an if he live to be a man .
pray ,  give me that .
i will owe thee an answer for that .
the moor is of a free and open nature ,  that thinks men honest that but seem to be so; and will as tenderly be led by the nose as asses are .
none ,  brutus ,  none .
hark, how they knock!
what ,  is he dead ?
how came these things to pass ?
talk no more.
sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours ,  makes the night morning ,  and the noontide night .
come ,  wait upon him; lead him to my bower .
what, of venice?
why then ,  my cousin ,  margaret ,  and ursula are much deceived ,  for they did swear you did .
are you a comedian ?
my lord sebastian ,  the truth you speak doth lack some gentleness and time to speak it in .
whither am i going ?
tis noble spoken .
we'll ha't tomorrow night .
howe'er thou art a fiend ,  a woman’s shape doth shield thee .
your vessels and your spells provide, your charms and every thing beside.
is it come to this ?
see it done and feast the army .
call up my brother .
but it is certain i am loved of all ladies ,  only you excepted .
tis pity of him .
he is a dreamer; let us leave him.
tis best to give him way .
inquire the jew's house out ,  give him this deed ,  and let him sign it; we'll away to - night ,  and be a day before our husbands home .
as you shall prove us ,  praise us .
tis banquo’s then .
true ,  i talk of dreams; which are the children of an idle brain ,  begot of nothing but vain fantasy; which is as thin of substance as the air ,  and more inconstant than the wind ,  who wooes even now the frozen bosom of the north and ,  being anger'd ,  puffs away from thence ,  turning his face to the dew - dropping south .
flower of this purple dye ,  hit with cupid’s archery ,  sink in apple of his eye .
i have a beard coming .
poor heart ,  adieu .
by heaven, i love thee better than myself, for i come hither arm'd against myself.
stand !
ye elves of hills ,  brooks ,  standing lakes and groves ,  and ye that on the sands with printless foot do chase the ebbing neptune and do fly him when he comes back; you demi - puppets that by moonshine do the green sour ringlets make ,  whereof the ewe not bites ,  and you whose pastime is to make midnight mushrooms ,  that rejoice to hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid ,  weak masters though ye be ,  i have bedimmed the noontide sun ,  called forth the mutinous winds ,  and ’twixt the green sea and the azured vault set roaring war—to the dread rattling thunder have i given fire ,  and rifted jove's stout oak with his own bolt; the strong - based promontory have i made shake ,  and by the spurs plucked up the pine and cedar: graves at my command have waked their sleepers ,  oped ,  and let ’em forth by my so potent art .
why, see you not?
nay ,  i hope .
that's a fault.
still better ,  and worse .
it's true, good lieutenant.
oh ,  caesar ,  this charmian lived but now .
these many then shall die ,  their names are prick'd .
love news ,  in faith ?
nay ,  but ,  ophelia— pray you ,  mark .
what will i do, thinkest thou?
shut up your doors ,  my lord .
if his occulted guilt do not itself unkennel in one speech ,  it is a damned ghost that we have seen ,  and my imaginations are as foul as vulcan's stithy .
o clitus !
as woman’s love .
i cry your worships mercy, heartily; i beseech your worship's name.
i have had a dream ,  past the wit of man to say what dream it was .
find thou the means ,  and i’ll find such a man .
caius ligarius doth bear caesar hard ,  who rated him for speaking well of pompey .
art thou indeed ?
i would i were invisible ,  to catch the strong fellow by the leg .
get me some poison, iago, this night.
no ,  unpin me here .
and here am i ,  and wood within this wood ,  because i cannot meet my hermia .
do you know me, my lord?
is romeo slaught'red, and is tybalt dead?
but few of any sort ,  and none of name .
i will look on it .
what's the matter?
the royal tree hath left us royal fruit ,  which ,  mellowed by the stealing hours of time ,  will well become the seat of majesty ,  and make ,  no doubt ,  us happy by his reign .
and if your love can labor ought in sad invention ,  hang her an epitaph upon her tomb and sing it to her bones .
alack ,  alack ,  that heaven should practise stratagems upon so soft a subject as myself !
why, what art thou?
and you are come in very happy time ,  to bear my greeting to the senators and tell them that i will not come today .
no man that’s born of woman shall e'er have power upon thee .  ”  then fly ,  false thanes ,  and mingle with the english epicures .
look ,  here it is .
go to .
but i am shepherd to another man and do not shear the fleeces that i graze .
come then and take the last warmth of my lips .
how sometimes his replies are !
well ,  i say no .
dead !
go get some water ,  and wash this filthy witness from your hand .
ah ,  that’s a foul fault .
these foils have all a length?
why ,  how now ,  juliet ?
you must leave this .
to feed my humor ,  wish thyself no harm .
let it appear so .
fled to his house amazed.
good or bad news ,  that thou com’st in so bluntly ?
mum ,  then ,  and no more .
it is some meteor that the sun exhales to be to thee this night a torchbearer and light thee on thy way to mantua .
he tells me ,  my dear gertrude ,  he hath found the head and source of all your son's distemper .
casca, you are the first that rears your hand.
come ,  my young soldier ,  put up your iron .
as low as to thy foot doth cassius fall to beg enfranchisement for publius cimber.
poor man!
a sick man in sadness makes his will ,  a word ill urged to one that is so ill .
sit thee down ,  clitus .
what do you think ?
swagger ?
i partly guess ,  for i have loved ere now .
and leave us, publius, lest that the people rushing on us should do your age some mischief.
do ’t ,  knight .
aside] the charm dissolves apace ,  [aside] the charm dissolves apace ,  and as the morning steals upon the night ,  melting the darkness ,  so their rising senses begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle their clearer reason . —o good gonzalo ,  my true preserver ,  and a loyal sir to him you follow'st !
tybalt is dead ,  and romeo banished . ’ that ‘banished , ’ that one word ‘banished , ’ hath slain ten thousand tybalts .
farewell ,  kind master .
rub him about the temples .
will you be patient ?
as i am egypt’s queen ,  thou blushest ,  antony ,  and that blood of thine is caesar’s homager .
how 'gree you now?
more knocking .
if arguing make us sweat, the proof of it will turn to redder drops.
how say you ,  then; would heart of man once think it ?
tell me but this ,  have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief spotted with strawberries in your wife’s hand ?
shall we rouse the night owl in a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver ?
not i ,  my lord .
the old proverb is very well parted between my master shylock and you ,  sir; you have the grace of god ,  sir ,  and he hath enough .
she is to enter now ,  and i am to spy her through the wall .
who is here so base that would be a bondman ?
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood !
a surgeon !
oh ,  fie upon them !
your fortunes are alike .
o that my prayers could such affection move!
fair leda’s daughter had a thousand wooers; then well one more may fair bianca have .
the ground is bloody . —search about the churchyard .
how, sir, how?
i prithee ,  recount some of them .
would they had stay'd!
an if the wind blow any way from shore ,  i will not harbor in this town tonight .
and for my means ,  i’ll husband them so well ,  they shall go far with little .
ha ,  ha ,  are you honest ?
did she see thee the while ,  old boy ?
tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen .
that you have wrong'd me doth appear in this: you have condemn'd and noted lucius pella for taking bribes here of the sardians, wherein my letters, praying on his side, because i knew the man, were slighted off.
that from your first of difference and decay have followed your sad steps .
is not tomorrow ,  boy ,  the ides of march ?
and the hour ,  i think ,  is come to give him hearing .
yond island carrions ,  desperate of their bones ,  ill - favoredly become the morning field .
no more than from my soul i mourn for yours .
madam ,  although i speak it in your presence ,  you have a noble and a true conceit of god - like amity; which appears most strongly in bearing thus the absence of your lord .
do you not hear me speak ?
thou art to die.
thou still hast been the father of good news .
romeo shall thank thee ,  daughter ,  for us both .
look, whether he has not turned his colour, and has tears in's eyes.
he is about it: the doors are open ,  and the surfeited grooms do mock their charge with snores: i have drugg'd their possets ,  that death and nature do contend about them ,  whether they live or die .
who's that ?
brave titinius!
bear him my head .
now ,  afore god ,  this reverend holy friar ,  all our whole city is much bound to him .
it was ,  as i have seen it in his life ,  a sable silvered .
if she be black ,  and thereto have a wit ,  she’ll find a white that shall her blackness fit .
infirm of purpose!
ay me!
it was the very day that young hamlet was born—he that is mad ,  and sent into england .
out, out, thou strumpet, fortune!
pray god it be ,  sir .
are we all met ?
nay ,  that’s certain .
if i quench thee ,  thou flaming minister ,  i can again thy former light restore should i repent me .
but sup them well and look unto them all .
well ,  do your discretion .
besides—i ha' not since put up my sword— against the capitol i met a lion ,  who glazed upon me and went surly by without annoying me: and there were drawn upon a heap a hundred ghastly women transformed with their fear ,  who swore they saw men all in fire walk up and down the streets .
he made you for a highway to my bed; but i ,  a maid ,  die maiden - widowed .
what trade, thou knave?
who ambles time withal ?
i hate ingratitude more in a man than lying ,  vainness ,  babbling ,  drunkenness ,  or any taint of vice whose strong corruption inhabits our frail blood—    o heavens themselves !
i will be brief ,  for my short date of breath is not so long as is a tedious tale .
twas you we laughed at .
feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, sick health!
is it possible that any villainy should be so dear ?
how now ,  cousin hero !
say ,  why is this ?
thou liest ,  abhorrèd tyrant .
come ,  gentle night; come ,  loving ,  black - brow'd night; give me my romeo; and ,  when he shall die ,  take him and cut him out in little stars ,  and he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night and pay no worship to the garish sun .
what say you ?
he will not say so .
whereon i do beseech thee ,  grant me this ,  to leave me but a little to myself .
how now ?
o wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
more to know did never meddle with my thoughts .
will it not be ?
your royal preparation makes us hear something .
and she goes down at twelve.
turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
believe me ,  i cannot .
i know ’t—my sister’s .
alack ,  what noise is this ?
an’ a speak anything against me ,  i'll take him down ,  an’ a were lustier than he is ,  and twenty such jacks; and if i cannot ,  i'll find those that shall .
moor ,  she was chaste; she loved thee ,  cruel moor; so come my soul to bliss ,  as i speak true; so speaking as i think ,  i die ,  i die .
the mayor is here at hand .
i'll fight ,  ’til from my bones my flesh be hack'd .
fire and brimstone!
herald ,  save thou thy labor .
all this done upon the gad ? —edmund ,  how now ?
if thou rememb’rest not the slightest folly that ever love did make thee run into ,  thou hast not loved .
i tell you 'tis not very well.
nor will you not tell me who you are ?
faith, that he did—i know not what he did.
great happiness!
hero itself can blot out hero’s virtue .
marry ,  now i can tell .
call her forth to me.
stand close; this is the same athenian .
i hope so ,  lepidus .
how far that little candle throws his beams !
o ceremony ,  show me but thy worth !
or rather ,  do i not in plainest truth tell you i do not ,  nor i cannot ,  love you ?
messala, this is my birthday, as this very day was cassius born.
here comes young master ganymede ,  my new mistress’s brother .
the time is free .
you’ll ask me why i rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh than to receive three thousand ducats .
searching the window for a flint ,  i found this paper ,  thus sealed up ,  and i am sure it did not lie there when i went to bed .
it had been so with us ,  had we been there .
and ,  as you said (and wisely was it said) 'tis meet that some more audience than a mother— since nature makes them partial—should o'erhear the speech ,  of vantage .
upon the heath.
no ,  monster ,  not i .
behold how like a maid she blushes here !
ill met by moonlight, proud titania.
we are undone, lady, we are undone!
cassius ,  be not deceived .
brother ,  i’ll go and bring it thee .
before the time i did lysander see seemed athens as a paradise to me .
what ,  you mean my face ?
caesar shall forth .
look you pale ,  mistress ?
now spurs the lated traveler apace to gain the timely inn ,  and near approaches the subject of our watch .
hood my unmann'd blood ,  bating in my cheeks ,  with thy black mantle till strange love ,  grown bold ,  think true love acted simple modesty .
bear with him ,  brutus; 'tis his fashion .
macbeth!
by my troth ,  i will speak my conscience of the king .
treachery !
you’ll not endure him !
that lord that counseled thee to give away thy land ,  come place him here by me .
the chain !
he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in pyramus, or nothing.
if e'er i loved her, all that love is gone.
sayest thou so ?
as i am a gentleman ,  i will live to be thankful to thee for ’t .
most shallow man .
happier than this— she is not bred so dull but she can learn .
i think so too .
that is no slander, sir, which is a truth; and what i spake, i spake it to my face.
cancel his bond of life ,  dear god i pray ,  that i may live to say ,   “ the dog is dead .  ”
no jutty ,  frieze ,  buttress ,  nor coign of vantage ,  but this bird hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle; where they most breed and haunt ,  i have observed the air is delicate .
is it the fashion that discarded fathers should have thus little mercy on their flesh ?
come ,  my sweet kate .
still as the grave .
i will chop her into messes !
believe me ,  king of shadows ,  i mistook .
our yoke and sufferance show us womanish .
now must your conscience my acquittance seal, and you must put me in your heart for friend, sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear, that he which hath your noble father slain pursued my life.
i'll after that same villain ,  for 'tis a damned slave .
caesar !
the sooner ,  sweet ,  for you .
read it ,  mark antony !
he was but a fool that brought my answer back .
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble .
but come, your bergomask; let your epilogue alone.
mark ,  i say ,  instantly ,  and carry it so as i have set it down .
friends to this ground .
first, pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself; which the ladies cannot abide.
ay ,  madam .
since they did plot the means that dusky dis my daughter got ,  her and her blind boy’s scandaled company i have forsworn .
never so rich a gem was set in worse than gold.
o night, which ever art when day is not!
look with what courteous action it waves you to a more removed ground.
i'll not believe't .
but there's no bottom ,  none ,  in my voluptuousness .
hie you ,  make haste ,  for it grows very late .
shake off this downy sleep ,  death's counterfeit ,  and look on death itself !
his very genius hath taken the infection of the device ,  man .
even here do we shake hands .
what, dares the slave come hither, cover'd with an antic face, to fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
what is't, my lord?
are those my tents where i perceive the fire ?
at every house i’ll call .
then plainly to her tell my loving tale .
come ,  come ,  we know your meaning ,  brother gloucester .
so in the world .
i am tame ,  sir .
i know this ,  and thus i challenge it .
merciful powers ,  restrain in me the cursèd thoughts that nature gives way to in repose .
that’s all one .
do you like this haste?
she is drowned already ,  sir ,  with salt water ,  though i seem to drown her remembrance again with more .
a segregation of the turkish fleet .
what should we say ,  my lord ?
sir?
what wouldst thou do ,  old man ?
come ,  you and i will thither presently .
call peter; he will show thee where they are.
and then the moon ,  like to a silver bow new bent in heaven ,  shall behold the night of our solemnities .
and there is a forerunner come from a fifth ,  the prince of morocco ,  who brings word the prince his master will be here tonight .
if his occulted guilt do not itself unkennel in one speech, it is a damned ghost that we have seen, and my imaginations are as foul as vulcan's stithy.
let the great gods that keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads find out their enemies now .
mine shall be spent ,  when theirs are dry ,  for romeo's banishment .
o ,  she will sing the savageness out of a bear .
will it not be received ,  when we have marked with blood those sleepy two of his own chamber and used their very daggers ,  that they have done ’t ?
pretty soul !
go thy ways ,  wench; serve god .
one kiss ,  and i’ll descend .
now to that name my courage prove my title !
yet i will adventure .
go you to him from me .
hillo ,  ho ,  ho ,  boy !
the testament !
ha, ha!
no marrying ’mong his subjects ?
how much unlike art thou to portia!
o ,  widow dido !
to do what ,  signior ?
what is it ,  my good friends ?
most absolute lord ,  my mistress cleopatra sent me to thee .
my deeds upon my head .
our wars are done ,  the turks are drowned .
the king his master needs must take it ill ,  that he ,  so slightly valued in his messenger ,  should have him thus restrained .
it was mere foolery; i did not mark it .
i do not ,  till you practice them on me .
and i was going to your lodging ,  cassio .
dost thou think so ,  spirit ?
o, touch me not!
he fights as you sing pricksong ,  keeps time ,  distance ,  and proportion; rests me his minim rest ,  one ,  two ,  and the third in your bosom !
you are a fool . —you ,  niece ,  provide yourself .
well, do you so: let not me take him then, for if i do, i'll mar the young clerk's pen.
alas ,  you know not; i must tell you then .
and then it started ,  like a guilty thing upon a fearful summons .
peace .
error i' the bill ,  sir ,  error i' the bill !
i never may believe these antique fables ,  nor these fairy toys .
true, i talk of dreams; which are the children of an idle brain, begot of nothing but vain fantasy; which is as thin of substance as the air, and more inconstant than the wind, who wooes even now the frozen bosom of the north and, being anger'd, puffs away from thence, turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
therefore thy earliness doth me assure thou art uproused by some distemperature .
was not charles ,  the duke’s wrestler ,  here to speak with me ?
away ,  away ,  for he is coming hither !
god grant we never may have need of you .
that we should ,  with joy ,  pleasance revel and applause ,  transform ourselves into beasts !
so do i ever  for had i cursed now ,  i had cursed myself .
the capon burns; the pig falls from the spit; the clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell; my mistress made it one upon my cheek .
twere good you do so much for charity .
and i.
and steep'd in blood ?
where is thy instrument?
yet hear me ,  countrymen; yet hear me speak .
hear me with patience.
who can come in and say that i mean her ,  when such a one as she such is her neighbor ?
there is one goat for you .
yes, faith, and all his lords, the duke of milan and his brave son being twain.
into a thousand parts divide one man ,  and make imaginary puissance .
do not weep, do not weep.
did we, my lord?
speak once again .
this is a practise as full of labor as a wise man’s art ,  for folly that he wisely shows is fit .
let wantons light of heart tickle the senseless rushes with their heels; for i am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase ,  i'll be a candle - holder and look on; the game was ne'er so fair ,  and i am done .
speak’st thou in sober meanings ?
most sweet lady— a comfortable doctrine ,  and much may be said of it .
let me embrace with old vincentio ,  and wander we to see thy honest son ,  who will of thy arrival be full joyous .
he that is giddy thinks the world turns round .
peter ,  stay at the gate .
the gods make this a happy day to antony !
three thousand ducats ,  for three months ,  and antonio bound .
my brave spirit !
trebonius doth desire you to o'er read ,  at your best leisure ,  this his humble suit .
faith ,  there has been much to do on both sides ,  and the nation holds it no sin to tar them to controversy .
i'll fetch him presently .
if knife ,  drugs ,  serpents ,  have edge ,  sting ,  or operation ,  i am safe .
oh !
now, hamlet, hear.
you speak this to fetch me in ,  my lord .
it is an accustomed action with her ,  to seem thus washing her hands .
a sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap, and mounch'd, and mounch'd, and mounch'd.
i think he only loves the world for him .
you cannot ,  if my heart were in your hand ,  nor shall not ,  whilst ’tis in my custody .
yes ,  one place else ,  if you will hear me name it .
unless the master were the man .
an thou let part so ,  sir andrew ,  would thou mightst never draw sword again .
thou art a cobbler ,  art thou ?
i believe we must leave the killing out ,  when all is done .
come, musicians, play.
too early seen unknown, and known too late!
you do me wrong to take me out o' th' grave .
see ,  there she lies ,  flower as she was ,  deflowered by him .
i do not know one of my sex ,  no woman’s face remember— save ,  from my glass ,  mine own .
go in ,  nerissa; give order to my servants ,  that they take no note at all of our being absent hence; nor you ,  lorenzo:—jessica ,  nor you .
you have me ,  have you not ?
but let the frame of things disjoint, both the worlds suffer, ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep in the affliction of these terrible dreams that shake us nightly.
at pembroke ,  or at ha'rfordwest in wales .
farewell both .
whence come you?
the text is foolish .
come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf, and tell me truly what thou think'st of him.
old montague is come and flourishes his blade in spite of me.
the punto reverso !
tomorrow ,  as he purposes .
nurse, will you go with me into my closet to help me sort such needful ornaments as you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
not cassio kill'd !
what i have done that might your nature, honour, and exception roughly awake, i here proclaim was madness.
he hath confess'd.
what ,  nurse ,  i say !
let’s mock the midnight bell .
come ,  some music !
he is sure possessed ,  madam .
come hither ,  gentlemen ,  and lay your hands again upon my sword .
i cannot speak of this .
soon at five o'clock ,  please you ,  i’ll meet with you upon the mart and afterward consort you till bedtime .
hear me with patience .
there’s beggary in the love that can be reckoned .
thank god .  ”  a good answer .
be curst and brief .
come you to make confession to this father ?
one sees more devils than vast hell can hold; that is the madman .
are you answered ?
tis the way to call hers, exquisite, in question more.
i will confess to you that i love him .
twere good you let him know ,  for who that’s but a queen ,  fair ,  sober ,  wise ,  would from a paddock ,  from a bat ,  a gib ,  such dear concernings hide ?
my lord shall never rest; i'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience; his bed shall seem a school, his board a shrift; i'll intermingle everything he does with cassio's suit.
well, peace be with you, sir.
i’ll strike and cry ,   “ take all .  ”                                                            well said .
let him alone .
fulvia is dead .
be't their comfort we are coming thither .
thanks, rosencrantz and gentle guildenstern.
o ,  a chair ,  a chair !
why ,  how now ,  hecate ?
be brief ,  lest that the process of thy kindness last longer telling than thy kindness' date .
first, good peter quince, say what the play treats on; then read the names of the actors; and so grow to a point.
bar harry england ,  that sweeps through our land with pennons painted in the blood of harfleur .
is my father well ?
why ,  sir ,  what’s your conceit in that ?
do you not hear me speak ?
most lamentable day ,  most woeful day that ever ever i did yet behold !
i am not mad ,  sir topas .
yet put it out ,  for i would not be seen .
promise me life ,  and i’ll confess the truth .
hark thee, clitus.
you are not ,  cassius .
good love ,  call him back .
i shall return before your lordship thence .
i pray you, pardon me; i cannot speak.
good then ,  casca .
what good could they pretend?
it is impossible you should see this were they as prime as goats ,  as hot as monkeys ,  as salt as wolves in pride ,  and fools as gross as ignorance made drunk .
o ,  find him !
you say very true ,  scald knave ,  when god’s will is .
come ,  love and health to all; then i'll sit down .
how now ,  wife ?
hold you the watch tonight ?
twas full two years ere i could get a tooth .
my suit to her is that she will to virtuous desdemona procure me some access.
i hear the news ,  my lord .
come now ,  keep thine oath .
ay ,  so we will .
man delights not me—no ,  nor woman nei -  ther ,  though by your smiling you seem to say so .
hillo, ho, ho, boy!
speak ,  nephew ,  were you by when it began ?
but if you would consider the true cause why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts, why birds and beasts from quality and kind, why old men fool, and children calculate, why all these things change from their ordinance, their natures and preformed faculties, to monstrous quality, why, you shall find that heaven hath infused them with these spirits to make them instruments of fear and warning unto some monstrous state.
if you choose that ,  then i am yours withal .
do thou meet me presently at the harbor .
but out of question ,  ’tis maria’s hand .
as caesar loved me ,  i weep for him; as he was fortunate ,  i rejoice at it; as he was valiant ,  i honor him; but as he was ambitious ,  i slew him .
what is ’t thou say’st ?
and i’ll be wise hereafter and seek for grace .
challenge me the count’s youth to fight with him .
and come with naked swords .
cheerly ,  good adam .
i'll make so bold to call ,  for ’tis my limited service .
commend me to thy lady, and bid her hasten all the house to bed, which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto.
well, do your discretion.
you cankerb lossom !
i thank thee for thy care and honest pains .
shall we clap into ’t roundly ,  without hawking or spitting or saying we are hoarse ,  which are the only prologues to a bad voice ?
caesar ,  'tis strucken eight .
i did send to you for certain sums of gold, which you denied me, for i can raise no money by vile means.
lady!
his majesty ,  tend'ring my person’s safety ,  hath appointed this conduct to convey me to the tower .
gone?
how fares our cousin hamlet?
i have it ,  tranio !
god bless you ,  sir !
ay ,  and said nothing but what i protest intendment of doing .
have you scored me ?
how cheerest thou ,  jessica ?
if by your art ,  my dearest father ,  you have put the wild waters in this roar ,  allay them .
will you know them then ?
ay ,  good fool .
but fare you well .
speak, is it out o' the way?
do you go back dismayed ?
thou didst it excellent .
though to have her and death were both one thing .
tis no matter how it be in tune ,  so it make noise enough .
then, is there the county palatine.
i pray thee, good mercutio, let's retire.
edmund is dead ,  my lord .
ay ,  amen !
i pray you ,  speak not .
look here upon this picture, and on this, the counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
thou ,  why ,  thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast .
there ,  take my coxcomb .
nay ,  an you be so tardy ,  come no more in my sight .
all with me’s meet that i can fashion fit .
was ’t you that did so oft contrive to kill him ?
cool it with a baboon’s blood ,  then the charm is firm and good .
even since you left it .
you rascal !
but i have spoke with one that saw him die ,  who did report that very frankly he confess'd his treasons ,  implored your highness’ pardon ,  and set forth a deep repentance .
come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
approach ,  ye furies fell .
what !
it is so too .
i will do anything ,  nerissa ,  ere i will be married to a sponge .
yield ,  cur .
better be with the dead, whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace, than on the torture of the mind to lie in restless ecstasy.
i have a reasonable good ear in music .
let’s lack no discipline ,  make no delay ,  for ,  lords ,  tomorrow is a busy day .
no; they were well at peace when i did leave ’em .
you’ll pay me the eight shillings i won of you at betting ?
a pestilence on him for a mad rogue !
yes ,  to smell pork; to eat of the habitation which your prophet ,  the nazarite ,  conjured the devil into !
good night then ,  casca .
thou and thy meaner fellows your last service did worthily perform ,  and i must use you in such another trick .
for even out of that will i cause these of cyprus to mutiny ,  whose qualification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of cassio .
she is our capital demand ,  comprised within the forerank of our articles .
ay ,  my good lord .
what wouldst thou beg ,  laertes ,  that shall not be my offer ,  not thy asking ?
pox on ’t !
if i find a hole in his coat ,  i will tell him my mind .
thy loving father ,  hamlet .
o well-a-day that ever i was born!
send thy man away .
that's not the tune .
i have made no fault .
you are welcome: take your place.
tis not unknown to you ,  antonio ,  how much i have disabled mine estate ,  by something showing a more swelling port than my faint means would grant continuance: nor do i now make moan to be abridg'd from such a noble rate; but my chief care is to come fairly off from the great debts wherein my time ,  something too prodigal ,  hath left me gag'd .
there ,  gentle hermia ,  may i marry thee; and to that place the sharp athenian law cannot pursue us .
they are coming to the play .
lend thy hand ,  and pluck my magic garment from me . —so: [lays down his cloak] [lays down his cloak] lie there ,  my art . —wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort .
a poor virgin ,  sir ,  an ill - favored thing ,  sir ,  but mine own .
the ousel cock ,  so black of hue ,  with orange - tawny bill ,  the throstle with his note so true ,  the wren with little quill .
appear thou in the likeness of a sigh !
very foul .
i do fear the people choose caesar for their king .
we are two lions littered in one day ,  and i the elder and more terrible .
thus have i, wall, my part discharged so; and, being done, thus wall away doth go.
read the will .
i must tell you then .
i will go along .
marry, that ‘marry’ is the very theme i came to talk of.
give him tending .
and how does your content tender your own good fortune ?
i say my daughter is my flesh and blood .
it is the lark that sings so out of tune ,  straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps .
i think nobly of the soul ,  and no way approve his opinion .
arm'd, my lord.
some such squire he was that turned your wit the seamy side without and made you to suspect me with the moor .
and then came pyramus .
away ,  you ethiope !
what’s the matter ?
hast thou slain him then ?
does't not go well ?
be patient ,  for you shall remain with us .
who are they ?
no ,  not tonight .
is your man secret?
i did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart .
fortune is merry ,  and in this mood will give us any thing .
for love of god ,  forbear him .
well ,  sir ?
i know this is a joyful trouble to you ,  but yet ’tis one .
mark antony i served ,  who best was worthy best to be served .
none that i know will be; much that i fear may chance .
how may that be ?
peace ,  ho !
question it ,  horatio .
she hath ,  and in that sparing makes huge waste; for beauty ,  starv'd with her severity ,  cuts beauty off from all posterity .
then lord have mercy on me!
an you part so ,  mistress ,  i would i might never draw sword again .
farewell.
he did ,  from first to last .
nay ,  come ,  i prithee .
death lies on her like an untimely frost upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
i do beseech you— though i perchance am vicious in my guess ,  as ,  i confess ,  it is my nature's plague to spy into abuses ,  and oft my jealousy shapes faults that are not—that your wisdom yet ,  from one that so imperfectly conceits ,  would take no notice ,  nor build yourself a trouble out of his scattering and unsure observance .
i'll not serve him; he's not valiant .
i am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable; for there is not one among them but i dote on his very absence ,  and i pray god grant them a fair departure .
how now ,  masters ?
do not talk to me ,  emilia; i cannot weep ,  nor answer have i none but what should go by water .
now bid me run, and i will strive with things impossible, yea, get the better of them.
ancient, conduct them; you best know the place.
how chances it they travel?
fare you well .
for the one ,  i have neither words nor measure; and for the other ,  i have no strength in measure ,  yet a reasonable measure in strength .
ay ,  sir ,  i have a pretty wit .
oh ,  that i were a man for his sake !
i say thy husband .
whither should they come?
didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand ?
i shall be there before thee .
counterfeit ?
i will here be with thee presently ,  and if i bring thee not something to eat ,  i will give thee leave to die .
i am not so well as i should be ,  but i’ll ne’er out .
madam ,  you must come to your uncle .
up to some scaffold ,  there to lose their heads .
tonight she is mewed up to her heaviness .
shall i go fetch your nightgown?
he is welcome too .
now am i dead, now am i fled; my soul is in the sky.
here all eyes gaze on us .
sure ,  ’tis not so .
ay ,  springes to catch woodcocks .
go ,  presently inquire ,  and so will i ,  where money is; and i no question make ,  to have it of my trust ,  or for my sake .
be wise ,  and get you home .
o ,  be gone !
both our remedies within thy help and holy physic lies .
what said popilius lena ?
what, not to pray?
all you gods, in general synod take away her power; break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel, and bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven, as low as to the fiends!
who knows not he is dead !
o, help me here!
o jew !
if his fitness speaks ,  mine is ready; now or when -  soever ,  provided i be so able as now .
we are men, my liege.
king stephen was a worthy peer, his breeches cost him but a crown; he held them sixpence all too dear, with that he call'd the tailor lown.
no ,  indeed are they not .
so delicate with her needle ,  an admirable musician .
let me see her.
adieu !
it may be ,  very like .
ay, madam, but returns again tonight.
is not this something more than fantasy ?
tis my picture .
here comes baptista .
here is the will ,  and under caesar's seal .
but since the affairs of men rest still incertain ,  let’s reason with the worst that may befall .
i have promised to make all this matter even .
he is called aunchient pistol .
aside] praise in departing .
yea ,  sir ,  we hope .
good even to my ghostly confessor .
i had been happy if the general camp ,  pioneers and all ,  had tasted her sweet body ,  so i had nothing known .
what, dost thou make us minstrels?
if i could pray to move ,  prayers would move me .
then comes she to me and with wild looks bid me devise some mean to rid her from this second marriage, or in my cell there would she kill herself.
this blows my heart .
are you up ?
i'll show thee the best springs; i'll pluck thee berries; i'll fish for thee, and get thee wood enough.
and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than their even christian.
follow my voice; we'll try no manhood here .
am i come near ye now ? — welcome ,  gentlemen !
it were not for your quiet nor your good ,  nor for my manhood ,  honesty ,  or wisdom ,  to let you know my thoughts .
kind souls, what weep you when you but behold our caesar's vesture wounded?
nay ,  pursue him now ,  lest the device take air and taint .
o dear account !
i rather tell thee what is to be fear'd than what i fear ,  for always i am caesar .
sings.
madam, i will.
what is ’t o'clock ?
good night .
stay not to question, for the watch is coming.
you are not wood ,  you are not stones ,  but men; and ,  being men ,  hearing the will of caesar ,  it will inflame you ,  it will make you mad .
come what come may ,  time and the hour runs through the roughest day .
death and damnation !
speak to us .
i do defy thy conjuration and apprehend thee for a felon here .
and even the like precurse of feared events ,  as harbingers preceding still the fates and prologue to the omen coming on ,  have heaven and earth together demonstrated unto our climature and countrymen .
in which predicament, i say, thou stand'st: for it appears by manifest proceeding, that, indirectly, and directly too, thou hast contriv'd against the very life of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd the danger formerly by me rehears'd.
casca, by your voice.
o you sir ,  you ,  come you hither ,  sir .
pray heaven it be state matters ,  as you think ,  and no conception nor no jealous toy concerning you .
from our brother england ?
i cannot speak of this .
was not that nobly done?
ever note ,  lucilius ,  when love begins to sicken and decay it useth an enforced ceremony .
alas ,  poor rogue !
what is her mother?
what is it else?
draw and come .
one angelo ,  a goldsmith .
if arguing make us sweat ,  the proof of it will turn to redder drops .
brutus, a word with you.
pray ,  sir ,  be patient .
why did i marry ?
to tell thee thou shalt see me at philippi.
we know thy charge ,  brakenbury ,  and will obey .
we’ll wait upon your lordship .
i am glad he’s come ,  howsoe'er he comes .
pah !
pompey is strong at sea ,  and it appears he is beloved of those that only have feared caesar .
think ,  my lord ?  ”  alas ,  thou echo’st me as if there were some monster in thy thought too hideous to be shown .
meet we the medicine of the sickly weal, and with him pour we, in our country's purge, each drop of us.
peter quince , — what sayest thou ,  bully bottom ?
two months since here was a gentleman of normandy— i have seen myself, and served against, the french, and they can well on horseback; but this gallant had witchcraft in't.
out of doubt he is transported .
oh ,  ’tis foul in her .
why ,  i will fight with him upon this theme until my eyelids will no longer wag .
i am not bid for love .
i one ,  my lord .
if he do blench ,  i know my course .
would the night were come.
goodly lord, what a wit-snapper are you!
which i take to be either a fool or a cipher .
i am now from home ,  and out of that provision which shall be needful for your entertainment .
that same villain ,  romeo .
you make me study of that .
i had forgot thee.
who can arraign me for ’t ?
what touches us ourself shall be last served .
so says my master antony .
let sorrow split my heart if ever i did hate thee or thy father .
music such as charmeth sleep !
i go ,  and it is done: the bell invites me .
nothing at all; yet all that is i see .
is my lord angry ?
hell and night must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.
at first and last ,  the hearty welcome .
true ,  ”  said she ,   “ a fine little one .  ”   “ no ,  ”  said i ,   “ a great wit .  ”   “ right ,  ”  says she ,   “ a great gross one .  ”   “ nay ,  ”  said i ,   “ a good wit .  ”   “ just ,  ”  said she ,   “ it hurts nobody .  ”   “ nay ,  ”  said i ,   “ the gentleman is wise .  ”   “ certain ,  ”  said she ,   “ a wise gentleman .  ”   “ nay ,  ”  said i ,   “ he hath the tongues .  ”   “ that i believe ,  ”  said she ,   “ for he swore a thing to me on monday night ,  which he forswore on tuesday morning; there’s a double tongue ,  there’s two tongues .  ”  thus did she an hour together transshape thy particular virtues .
not for the wide world .
to sebastian and antonio] there stand ,  [to sebastian and antonio] there stand ,  for you are spell - stopped . — holy gonzalo ,  honourable man ,  mine eyes ,  even sociable to the show of thine ,  fall fellowly drops .
hold, daughter.
farewell ,  good strato .
provoke him, that he may; for even out of that will i cause these of cyprus to mutiny, whose qual- ification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of cassio.
o ,  for two special reasons ,  which may to you ,  perhaps ,  seem much unsinew'd ,  but yet to me they are strong .
farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
king lear hath lost ,  he and his daughter ta'en .
why ,  so i do .
how durst you ,  villains ,  bring it from the dresser and serve it thus to me that love it not ?
yet would i knew that stroke would prove the worst !
he ,  when he hears of her ,  cannot refrain from the excess of laughter .
that she brought me up ,  i likewise give her most humble thanks .
twere good you do so much for charity .
come, come, thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in italy; and as soon moved to be moody, and as soon moody to be moved.
peace ,  peace ,  iras .
o ,  she says nothing ,  sir ,  but weeps and weeps; and now falls on her bed ,  and then starts up ,  and tybalt calls; and then on romeo cries ,  and then down falls again .
utter my thoughts ?
suit the action to the word ,  the word to the action; with this special observance ,  that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing ,  whose end ,  both at the first and now ,  was and is ,  to hold ,  as 'twere ,  the mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature ,  scorn her own image ,  and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure .
the juice of it on sleeping eye - lids laid will make or man or woman madly dote upon the next live creature that it sees .
saint francis be my speed !
alack ,  where are you ?
brutus ,  i do observe you now of late; i have not from your eyes that gentleness and show of love as i was wont to have; you bear too stubborn and too strange a hand over your friend that loves you .
where is gentle rivers ,  vaughan ,  grey ?
that same cowardly ,  giantlike ox - beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house .
he doth entreat your grace ,  my noble lord ,  to visit him tomorrow or next day .
drunk!
nor anyone .
the sin of my ingratitude even now was heavy on me .
avaunt ,  you cullions !
what ,  man ?
good ,  speak to th' mariners .
sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief; i am most unhappy in the loss of it.
who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath .  ”  you shall look fairer ere i give or hazard .
do ,  do .
what had he done to make him fly the land ?
all ready .
pointing to caliban] this is a strange thing as e'er i [pointing to caliban] this is a strange thing as e'er i look'd on .
when this advice is free i give and honest, probal to thinking, and indeed the course to win the moor again?
he is or ta'en or slain.
he waxes desperate with imagination .
five summers have i spent in farthest greece ,  roaming clean through the bounds of asia ,  and ,  coasting homeward ,  came to ephesus ,  hopeless to find ,  yet loath to leave unsought or that or any place that harbors men .
for love i followed him .
i will come again .
you shall have the mustard or else you get no beef of grumio .
i am not stephano, but a cramp.
peace !
a crow without feather ?
she's a most exquisite lady .
o my good master !
prince dauphin ,  you shall stay with us in rouen .
he cannot prevail with me .
i conjure you by that which you profess— howe'er you come to know it—answer me .
and in part him, but,’ you may say, ‘not well.
looks it not like the king?
o ,  my daughter !
o cassius ,  brutus gave the word too early ,  who ,  having some advantage on octavius ,  took it too eagerly .
peace !
now ,  catesby ,  what says your lord to my request ?
my advocation is not now in tune; my lord is not my lord ,  nor should i know him were he in favor as in humor alter'd .
who sued to me for him ?
i had myself notice of my brother’s purpose herein and have by underhand means labored to dissuade him from it; but he is resolute .
old cassius still !
whereby hangs a tale, sir?
chop off his head .
in such a night as this !
for me ,  the gold of france did not seduce ,  although i did admit it as a motive the sooner to effect what i intended; but god be thankèd for prevention ,  which i in sufferance heartily will rejoice ,  beseeching god and you to pardon me .
all that's spoke is marr'd .
my lord ,  you once did love me .
what enterprise, popilius?
lead the way.
yea ,  my good lord .
and in good time here comes the sweating lord .
why, what a king is this!
i wish mine eyes would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: i find they are inclined to do so.
thanks ,  rosencrantz and gentle guildenstern .
why ,  so didst thou .
that it did, sir, i’ the very throat on me: but i requited him for his lie, and, i think, being too strong for him, though he took up my legs sometime, yet i made a shift to cast him.
cassio ,  walk hereabout .
ay ,  but not yet to die .
and this .
so is lysander .
this concurs directly with the letter .
i pray you ,  give me leave to go from hence .
observe his inclination in yourself.
my brother’s love ,  the devil ,  and my rage .
you shall find me apt enough to that ,  sir ,  an you will give me occasion .
i pray you ,  go along with me .
and lawfully by this the jew may claim a pound of flesh to be by him cut off nearest the merchant’s heart . —be merciful .
not now ,  sweet desdemona .
you think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes .
now ,  ere the sun advance his burning eye the day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry ,  i must up - fill this osier cage of ours with baleful weeds and precious - juiced flowers .
why then ,  you are in love .
didst not mark that ?
the games are done ,  and caesar is returning .
by my sword ,  beatrice ,  thou lovest me .
and so of men .
here's a small trifle of wives: alas, fifteen wives is nothing; aleven widows and nine maids, is a simple coming-in for one man: and then, to 'scape drowning thrice; and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a feather bed; here are simple 'scapes!
laertes ,  i must commune with your grief ,  or you deny me right .
transparent helena !
i saw thee late at the count orsino’s .
it is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus washing her hands.
no, by this hand.
fine ,  i' faith !
god be with you !
god ye good morrow ,  gentlemen .
by no means ,  sir .
oh ,  on my soul ,  my cousin is belied !
the sun !
my noble uncle ,  do you know the cause ?
speak ,  i charge you .
why ,  thou loss upon loss !
the fiend is at mine elbow, and tempts me; saying to me,—gobbo, launcelot gobbo, good launcelot, or good gobbo, or good launcelot gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away.—my conscience says, no; take heed, honest launcelot; take heed, honest gobbo; or, (as aforesaid) honest launcelot gobbo; do not run: scorn running with thy heels: well, the most courageous fiend bids me pack; via!
marry ,  sir ,  with needle and thread .
i would forget it fain; but o, it presses to my memory like damned guilty deeds to sinners’ minds!
what, and my old venetian friend, salerio?
you envy my advancement ,  and my friends' .
thou'rt kind.
i ,  for my part ,  knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal .
virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes .
give him a halter: i am famished in his service; you may tell every finger i have with my ribs.
but there is two hard things; that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for, you know, pyramus and thisbe meet by moonlight.
if any ,  speak—for him have i offended .
were not my doors locked up and i shut out ?
o ,  where ?
nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
hail!
o spartan dog, more fell than anguish, hunger, or the sea!
shall they see us?
i and my bosom must debate awhile ,  and then i would no other company .
more pity that the eagle should be mewed while kites and buzzards prey at liberty .
either thou or i ,  or both ,  must go with him .
how art thou out of breath when thou hast breath to say to me that thou art out of breath?
thou canst not fear us ,  pompey ,  with thy sails .
sister ,  where thou ?
art not thou the lady olivia’s fool ?
o dear !
it is more worthy to leap in ourselves than tarry till they push us .
i will be hanged ,  if some eternal villain ,  some busy and insinuating rogue ,  some cogging ,  cozening slave ,  to get some office ,  have not devised this slander .
then there’s hope a great man’s memory may outlive his life half a year .
our hostess keeps her state, but in best time we will require her welcome.
nothing at all .
it is the quality o'th’ climate .
look how it steals away!
a visor for a visor!
i’ll able 'em .
in troth ,  i think thou wouldst not .
o thou vile king ,  give me my father !
unlawfully ?
is't possible ?
shall i descend?
thus may we gather honey from the weed and make a moral of the devil himself .
he will do all in all as hastings doth .
if not ,  he foams at mouth and by and by breaks out to savage madness .
i would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body.
but yet ,  i say ,  if imputation and strong circumstances which lead directly to the door of truth will give you satisfaction ,  you may have ’t .
who calls so loud ?
a countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
methinks you are my glass ,  and not my brother: i see by you i am a sweet - faced youth .
seven days and nights ?
through the forest have i gone, but athenian found i none, on whose eyes i might approve this flower's force in stirring love.
sure ,  i shall never marry like my sisters ,  to love my father all .
they shall ,  nerissa ,  but in such a habit that they shall think we are accomplishèd with that we lack .
past all expressing .
how long within this wood intend you stay ?
but let him come.
you have said now .
reads] sweet bassanio ,  my ships have all reads] miscarried ,  my creditors grow cruel ,  my estate is very low ,  my bond to the jew is forfeit; and since ,  in paying it ,  it is impossible i should live ,  all debts are cleared between you and i ,  if i might but see you at my death; notwithstanding ,  use your pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come ,  let not my letter .
now, hamlet, where's polonius?
i wonder if the lion be to speak .
why ,  what’s the matter ?
i will .
will you play upon this pipe ?
heaven is here, where juliet lives; and every cat and dog and little mouse, every unworthy thing, live here in heaven and may look on her; but romeo may not.
ye men of cyprus ,  let her have your knees .
what impossible matter will he make easy next ?
the wood of birnam .
what is the matter with thee ?
why are you virtuous ?
he attendeth here hard by, to know your answer, whether you'll admit him.
what is ’t ?
your honor is most welcome .
and she can weep ,  sir ,  weep .
this is old .
what treasure had he, my lord?
o brave monster !
the table’s full .
oh ,  horrible ,  oh ,  horrible ,  most horrible !
he is too disputable for my company .
what, sir, not yet at rest?
your servant shall do so .
whence is that knocking ?
her mood will needs be pitied .
i will not be afraid of death and bane till birnam forest come to dunsinane.
it will be laid to us, whose providence should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt this mad young man.
what ladybird !
myself ?
ay ,  ’tis strong ,  and it does indifferent well in a dun - colored stock .
o, that a lady of one man refused should of another therefore be abused!
my lord ,  my lord !
well then ,  now have you consider'd of my speeches ?
i'll take my leave of the jew in the twinkling of an eye.
there’s money for thee .
most ungrateful maid!
what infinite heart’s ease must kings neglect that private men enjoy ?
i saw mark antony offer him a crown ,  yet 'twas not a crown neither ,  'twas one of these coronets and ,  as i told you ,  he put it by once .
then must i think you would not have it so .
and sayest thou yet that exile is not death?
you take my life when you do take the means whereby i live .
what, ho!
you wrong me every way ,  you wrong me ,  brutus .
we must not .
my cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart .
has he ,  masters ?
i’ll tell thee ere thou ask it me again .
do they hold the same estimation they did when i was in the city ?
where art thou ,  proud demetrius ?
i am afraid this great lubber ,  the world ,  will prove a cockney .
if he ask for me ,  i am ill and gone to bed .
fly not .
robin ,  take off this head .
iago ,  look with care about the town ,  and silence those whom this vile brawl distracted .
good night.
i hear some noise.
i drink to the general joy o’ the whole table ,  and to our dear friend banquo ,  whom we miss .
what should i stay— in this wild world ?
her speech is nothing, yet the unshaped use of it doth move the hearers to collection; they aim at it, and botch the words up fit to their own thoughts; which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them, indeed would make one think there might be thought, though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
i pray you ,  let me look upon the bond .
by the hour of nine .
which of you—if you were a prince’s son being pent from liberty ,  as i am now— if two such murderers as yourselves came to you ,  would not entreat for life ?
but, good lieutenant, is your general wived?
o perjured woman !
if he do bleed ,  i’ll gild the faces of the grooms withal ,  for it must seem their guilt .
fie ,  sir ,  fie !
i pray you ,  pardon me .
but it is no english treason to cut french crowns ,  and tomorrow the king himself will be a clipper .
i pray you ,  tell it .
well, it shall be so.
good night ,  my lord .
devilish macbeth by many of these trains hath sought to win me into his power ,  and modest wisdom plucks me from over - credulous haste .
poor lady ,  she'll run mad when she shall lack it .
moonshine and lion are left to bury the dead .
come your ways.
we will have more of this tomorrow.
tell me, good my friend, what torch is yond that vainly lends his light to grubs and eyeless skulls?
have you no modesty, no maiden shame, no touch of bashfulness?
o valiant cousin!
i saw her laid low in her kindred's vault and presently took post to tell it you .
thank you .
away !
young men will do't if they come to't by cock, they are to blame.
bid him set on his powers betimes before ,  and we will follow .
shylock ,  albeit i neither lend nor borrow by taking nor by giving of excess ,  yet to supply the ripe wants of my friend ,  i’ll break a custom .
o, 'tis too true!
montano and myself being in speech ,  there comes a fellow crying out for help ,  and cassio following him with determined sword ,  to execute upon him .
ere the bat hath flown his cloister'd flight; ere to black hecate's summons the shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done a deed of dreadful note.
oh ,  that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill !
not that i love you not .
they would have me as familiar with men’s pockets as their gloves or their handkerchers ,  which makes much against my manhood ,  if i should take from another’s pocket to put into mine ,  for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs .
is not that he that lies upon the ground?
the business of the state does him offence ,  and he does chide with you .
he can report ,  as seemeth by his plight ,  of the revolt the newest state .
tell him i have moved my lord on his behalf and hope all will be well.
there's a poor piece of gold for thee .
do not learn of him, emilia, though he be thy husband.
twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.
to do this is within the compass of man's wit, and therefore i will attempt the doing it.
am i not stay'd for ?
how now ,  lorenzo ?
he that stirs next to carve for his own rage holds his soul light ,  he dies upon his motion .
god and the rope - maker bear me witness that i was sent for nothing but a rope .
pluck down benches .
she will indite him to some supper .
but i’ll be hanged ,  sir ,  if he wear your livery .
yare, yare!
well ,  thou hast comforted me marvelous much .
nay ,  come ,  again .
i doubt some foul play .
how ?
wednesday is to-morrow.
hie you to church .
i have heard where many of the best respect in rome ,  except immortal caesar ,  speaking of brutus ,  and groaning underneath this age's yoke ,  have wish'd that noble brutus had his eyes .
stay ,  though thou kill me ,  sweet demetrius .
call up all my people !
who hath relieved you ?
did you and he consent in cassio’s death ?
horns ?
how begot, how nourished?
why ,  what is that to you ?
but he that will believe all that they say shall never be saved by half that they do .
what ,  are you busy ,  ho ?
give thy thoughts no tongue ,  nor any unproportioned thought his act .
here's goodly gear !
ay me !
but when i came ,  some minute ere the time of her awaking ,  here untimely lay the noble paris and true romeo dead .
with whom ?
give me leave awhile .
now this overdone, or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh a whole theatre of others.
nothing, good monsieur, but to help cavalery cobweb to scratch.
since i have your good leave to go away ,  i will make haste .
thou mayst revenge.
the king and queen and all are coming down .
this physic but prolongs thy sickly days .
we have two hours to furnish us .
henceforth be never number'd among men !
how shall that faith return again to earth unless that husband send it me from heaven by leaving earth?
thou hast me ,  if thou hast me ,  at the worst ,  and thou shalt wear me ,  if thou wear me ,  better and better .
i wish mine eyes would ,  with themselves ,  shut up my thoughts: i find they are inclined to do so .
but in my terms of honor i stand aloof ,  and will no reconcilement till by some elder masters ,  of known honor ,  i have a voice and precedent of peace to keep my name ungored .
ophelia ,  walk you here .
here comes the furious tybalt back again.
better be with the dead ,  whom we ,  to gain our peace ,  have sent to peace ,  than on the torture of the mind to lie in restless ecstasy .
ho ,  awake !
here ,  peter quince .
good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do, in such disdainful manner me to woo.
you cannot ,  sir ,  take from me any thing that i will more willingly part withal—except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life .
what say you, hugh rebeck?
without his roe, like a dried herring.
let four captains bear hamlet like a soldier to the stage; for he was likely, had he been put on, to have proved most royal; and, for his passage, the soldiers' music and the rites of war speak loudly for him.
or blessèd was't we did?
i mean that my heart unto yours is knit so that but one heart we can make of it .
what is that noise ?
give me a case to put my visage in .
stand and unfold yourself .
god bless you, sir.
in saying so ,  you shall but say the truth .
tell him his fears are shallow ,  without instance .
my countrymen— peace !
tis in my memory lock'd ,  and you yourself shall keep the key of it .
i have forgot your name ,  but sure that part was aptly fitted and naturally performed .
another hit .
therefore we’ll have some half a dozen friends ,  and there an end .
where virtue is ,  these are more virtuous .
but indeed ,  if you find him not within this month ,  you shall nose him as you go up the stair ,  into the lobby .
o me!
well, we shall sift him.
keep this man safe ,  give him all kindness; i had rather have such men my friends than enemies .
have you any further trade with us ?
they are of norway ,  sir .
good night, mother.
what ish my nation ?
if she cannot entreat ,  i can compel .
no man must know .  ”  what follows ?
amen ,  with all my heart !
i found her trimming up the diadem on her dead mistress .
know’st thou not the duke hath banished me ,  his daughter ?
you know not why we came to visit you— thus out of season ,  threading dark - eyed night .
i do not think thou canst ,  for then thou wast not out three years old .
watch me like argus .
ah ,  good father ,  thou seest the heavens ,  as troubled with man's act ,  threaten his bloody stage .
they must lie there.
that  “ banishèd ,  ”  that one word  “ banishèd ”  hath slain ten thousand tybalts .
ay me ,  most wretched ,  that have my heart parted betwixt two friends that does afflict each other !
dat it is not be de fashion pour les ladies of france—i cannot tell wat is  to kiss .
nay ,  he rubs himself with civet .
i will not sort you with the rest of my servants; for ,  to speak to you like an honest man ,  i am most dreadfully attended .
yes .
i have nothing to do with thee .
keep the door.
but good lieutenant ,  is your general wived ?
indeed ?
why ,  what did i ?
what beast was ’t ,  then ,  that made you break this enterprise to me ?
your daughter spent in genoa ,  as i heard ,  in one night fourscore ducats .
you’ll have your nephews neigh to you .
when went there by an age since the great flood but it was famed with more than with one man ?
o woe !
the ship was under sail .
i understand not ,  madam .
if a man were porter of hell - gate ,  he should have old turning the key .
day ,  night ,  hour ,  tide ,  time ,  work ,  play ,  alone ,  in company ,  still my care hath been to have her matched .
speak not against it .
but soft !
yea ,  noise ?
the most exquisite claudio ?
what ,  bear her in hand until they come to take hands and then ,  with public accusation ,  uncovered slander ,  unmitigated rancor—o god ,  that i were a man !
friends ,  romans ,  countrymen ,  lend me your ears .
nay ,  an there were two such ,  we should have none shortly ,  for one would kill the other .
come ,  knock and enter; and no sooner in but every man betake him to his legs .
oh ,  do not wish one more !
poor lady, she'll run mad when she shall lack it.
come ,  good fellow ,  put thine iron on .
he is gone ,  he is gone ,  and we cast away moan .
he cannot live ,  i hope ,  and must not die till george be packed with post - horse up to heaven .
i wonder if the lion be to speak .
make haste ,  lest mine be about your ears ere it be out .
how fares your grace ?
gentle lady ,  when i did first impart my love to you ,  i freely told you ,  all the wealth i had ran in my veins .
naught that i am ,  not for their own demerits ,  but for mine ,  fell slaughter on their souls .
what soldiers ,  whey - face ?
such mortal drugs i have; but mantua's law is death to any he that utters them .
farewell .
there shall the pairs of faithful lovers be wedded, with theseus, all in jollity.
i charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
i do never use it.
when i did make thee free ,  swor’st thou not then to do this when i bade thee ?
now in respect it is in the fields ,  it pleaseth me well; but in respect it is not in the court ,  it is tedious .
i do bite my thumb ,  sir .
i know not ,  sir .
i might call him a thing divine ,  for nothing natural i ever saw so noble .
a good knave .
now ,  i prithee ,  daughter ,  do not make me mad .
we have done our course .
indeed ,  sweet love ,  i was coming to your house .
ay ,  marry ,  is ’t .
ay ,  and for that thou diest .
welcome, good robin.
is it honest in deed and word ?
and have you mercy too !
at this hour lie at my mercy all mine enemies .
youth to itself rebels ,  though none else near .
the feast is sold that is not often vouch'd, while ’tis a-making, ’tis given with welcome.
come ,  help to bear thy master .
we’ll whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws .
a lioness hath whelped in the streets; and graves have yawn'd ,  and yielded up their dead; fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds ,  in ranks and squadrons and right form of war ,  which drizzled blood upon the capitol; the noise of battle hurtled in the air ,  horses did neigh and dying men did groan ,  and ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets .
if she be black ,  and thereto have a wit ,  she'll find a white that shall her blackness fit .
and be not jealous on me ,  gentle brutus; were i a common laugher ,  or did use to stale with ordinary oaths my love to every new protester ,  if you know that i do fawn on men and hug them hard and after scandal them ,  or if you know that i profess myself in banqueting to all the rout ,  then hold me dangerous .
perforce i must confess i thought you lord of more true gentleness .
you counterfeit ,  you puppet you !
good madam ,  stay a while .
what do you think of marching to philippi presently ?
oh ,  curse of marriage that we can call these delicate creatures ours and not their appetites !
therefore weep .
drown thyself ?
or to be naked with her friend in bed an hour or more, not meaning any harm?
this mortal house i’ll ruin ,  do caesar what he can .
perchance ?
thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it .
o comfortable friar !
thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel .
is thy union here ?
mark the music .
fie ,  thou dishonest satan !
if thou didst ever hold me in thy heart, absent thee from felicity awhile, and in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain, to tell my story.
we are blest that rome is rid of him .
o thou untaught!
that's strange .
why ,  see you not ?
my lord ?
naught’s had ,  all’s spent ,  where our desire is got without content .
to bed ,  to bed ,  to bed .
romeo ,  come forth .
nurse !
his soldiers fell to spoil ,  whilst we by antony are all enclosed .
i charge you, go with me.
but yet, i say, if imputation and strong circumstances, which lead directly to the door of truth, will give you satisfaction, you may have't.
pluck out his eyes .
since my dear soul was mistress of her choice, and could of men distinguish her election, sh'hath seal'd thee for herself.
fare you well ,  my liege .
tender yourself more dearly ,  or—not to crack the wind of the poor phrase ,  running it thus—you’ll tender me a fool .
follow me ,  then ,  to plainer ground .
nay ,  i beseech you ,  sir ,  be not out with me .
murder!
it shall to the barber's ,  with your beard .
he will divorce you, or put upon you what restraint and grievance the law, with all his might to enforce it on, will give him cable.
i bought an unction of a mountebank ,  so mortal that but dip a knife in it ,  where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare ,  collected from all simples that have virtue under the moon ,  can save the thing from death this is but scratch'd withal .
if thou wilt needs damn thyself ,  do it a more delicate way than drowning .
this quarry cries on havoc .
money by me !
what of that ?
but if you do, sir, i am for you.
most mighty duke ,  behold a man much wronged .
if any man in italy have a fairer table ,  which doth offer to swear upon a book ,  i shall have good fortune !
i come to answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly, to swim, to dive into the fire, to ride on the curled clouds, to thy strong bidding task ariel and all his quality hast thou, spirit, performed to point the tempest that i bade thee?
cousins ,  you know what you have to do . —o ,  i cry you mercy ,  friend .
to vail the title ,  as her mother doth .
why ,  what a king is this !
thou hast got more hair on thy chin than dobbin my phill - horse has on his tail .
who does i’ th’ wars more than his captain can becomes his captain’s captain; and ambition ,  the soldier’s virtue ,  rather makes choice of loss than gain which darkens him .
try what repentance can .
i thank you ,  sir .
this will put them out of fear .
i am sorry for my cousin .
a most miraculous work in this good king ,  which often since my here - remain in england i have seen him do .
most humbly therefore bending to your state, i crave fit disposition for my wife, due reference of place and exhibition, with such accommodation and besort as levels with her breeding.
why then ,  thus it is: you must prepare your bosom for his knife .
who builds stronger than a mason, a ship- wright, or a carpenter?
art thou there, truepenny?
i can hardly forbear hurling things at him .
are they return'd?
a most ridiculous monster ,  to make a wonder of a poor drunkard !
briefly ,  i dwell by the capitol .
here, sweet lord, at your service.
go on; i'll follow thee .
alla stoccata carries it away.
pause awhile ,  and let my counsel sway you in this case .
a spirit ?
o ,  by your leave ,  i pray you ,  i bade you never speak again of him .
i loved you ever .
you know me well ,  and herein spend but time to wind about my love with circumstance .
this is i ,  hamlet the dane .
i am dying ,  egypt ,  dying .
o hell ,  what have we here ?
then make a ring about the corpse of caesar ,  and let me show you him that made the will .
now romeo is belov'd ,  and loves again ,  alike bewitched by the charm of looks; but to his foe suppos'd he must complain ,  and she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks .
i am not gamesome; i do lack some part of that quick spirit that is in antony .
ah ,  soldier !
had i not four or five women once that tended me?
double, double, toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble.
i can as well be hang'd as tell the manner of it.
blow ,  till thou burst thy wind ,  if room enough !
but to orlando: did he leave him there ,  food to the sucked and hungry lioness ?
but ,  adieu !
very ill ,  too .
ah, good father, thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act, threaten his bloody stage.
oh ,  ’twas a din to fright a monster’s ear ,  to make an earthquake !
nay, i will.
i pray you leave me .
the wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
were i a common laugher ,  or did use to stale with ordinary oaths my love to every new protester ,  if you know that i do fawn on men and hug them hard and ,  after ,  scandal them ,  or if you know that i profess myself in banqueting to all the rout ,  then hold me dangerous .
macbeth!
he will ,  an if he live to be a man .
it is the lady that pyramus must love.
what then ?
where be thy brothers ?
surely i do believe your fair cousin is wronged .
a bridegroom ,  say you ?
the moor's abused by some most villainous knave, some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.
good gentle youth ,  tempt not a desperate man .
indeed i never shall be satisfied with romeo till i behold him— dead — is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd.
help ,  help ,  ho !
what miserable praise hast thou for her that's foul and foolish ?
not i .
come ,  lieutenant ,  i have a stoup of wine ,  and here without are a brace of cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to the health of black othello .
who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”   “ as much as he deserves !  ” —pause there ,  morocco ,  and weigh thy value with an even hand .
caesar ,  i will .
for me ,  three thousand ducats .
more than to us wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed!
i think withal there would be hands uplifted in my right; and here from gracious england have i offer of goodly thousands .
nay ,  rather persuade him to hold his hands .
my lord ,  you nod .
come ,  come with me ,  and we will make short work; for ,  by your leaves ,  you shall not stay alone till holy church incorporate two in one .
so is he now in execution of any bold or noble enterprise ,  however he puts on this tardy form .
are you yet living ?
out ,  tawny tartar ,  out !
for pyramus is a sweet - faced man ,  a proper man as one shall see in a summer’s day ,  a most lovely ,  gentlemanlike man .
here's a farmer that hanged himself on th’ expectation of plenty .
tis very strange .
then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es and dupp'd the chamber door ,  let in the maid ,  that out a maid never departed more .
but shall we wear these glories for a day ,  or shall they last and we rejoice in them ?
peace ,  you rogue ,  no more o' that .
o bloody richard !
nothing ,  messala .
how may we try it further?
what in the contrary ?
i do spy a kind of hope ,  which craves as desperate an execution as that is desperate which we would prevent .
hark ,  come hither ,  tyrrel .
and you shall speak in the same pulpit whereto i am going, after my speech is ended.
then he is dead ?
serve you ,  sir .
methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is perfect gallows .
o, here will i set up my everlasting rest and shake the yoke of inauspicious stars from this world-wearied flesh.
or rather bottomless ,  that as fast as you pour affection in ,  it runs out .
you must awhile be patient .
i’ll make one too .
transform me ,  then ,  and to your power i’ll yield .
be witness to me ,  o thou blessèd moon ,  when men revolted shall upon record bear hateful memory ,  poor enobarbus did before thy face repent .
o brave monster !
hie you to church; i must another way ,  to fetch a ladder ,  by the which your love must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark .
i love your majesty according to my bond ,  no more nor less .
send thither to see.
did you know him ?
i cannot go to, man; nor 'tis not very well.
o ,  come in ,  emilia .
o damn'd iago!
i grant indeed it hath not appeared, and your suspicion is not without wit and judgement.
this is not brutus, friend, but, i assure you, a prize no less in worth.
and what's the news ,  good cousin lodovico ?
no, my noble lord, it is not for you.
smile heaven upon this fair conjunction ,  that long have frowned upon their enmity .
where is thy master ,  dromio ?
o my dear brother!
murder !
that’s a perilous shot out of an elder gun ,  that a poor and private displeasure can do against a monarch .
am i the motive of these tears ,  my lord ?
speak not, reply not, do not answer me!
well ,  juliet ,  i will lie with thee to - night .
hazard for lead ?
tybalt ,  liest thou there in thy bloody sheet ?
give me answer to it .
oh ,  be sick ,  great greatness ,  and bid thy ceremony give thee cure !
fear me not .
arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow cell!
these violent delights have violent ends and in their triumph die ,  like fire and powder ,  which ,  as they kiss ,  consume .
a fox when one has caught her and such a daughter should sure to the slaughter ,  if my cap would buy a halter .
call me what instrument you will ,  though you can fret me ,  yet you cannot play upon me .
somebody knocks .
an if your wife be not a madwoman ,  and know how well i have deserved the ring ,  she would not hold out enemy forever for giving it to me .
my voice is in my sword .
o upright ,  just ,  and true - disposing god ,  how do i thank thee that this carnal cur preys on the issue of his mother’s body and makes her pew - fellow with others' moan !
it was a violent commencement ,  and thou shalt see an answer -  able sequestration; put but money in thy purse .
tis pity of him .
ride ,  ride ,  messala ,  ride ,  and give these bills unto the legions on the other side .
at least two glasses .
beshrew my very heart, i think you are happy in this second match, for it excels your first; or if it did not, your first is dead—or 'twere as good he were as living here and you no use of him.
anon his thisbe must be answered, and forth my mimic comes.
you’re welcome hither .
come ,  down into the boat .
god forbid !
a commodity in question ,  i warrant you . —come ,  we’ll obey you .
i wish your enterprise today may thrive .
what ,  sigh for the toothache ?
this fellow’s of exceeding honesty and knows all quantities ,  with a learnèd spirit ,  of human dealings .
even such delight among fresh fennel buds shall you this night inherit at my house .
i hate him for he is a christian: but more ,  for that ,  in low simplicity ,  he lends out money gratis ,  and brings down the rate of usance here with us in venice .
a worthy pioneer !
without ,  my lord; guarded ,  to know your pleasure .
is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble ?
i’ll fume with them !  ”  and with that word she struck me on the head ,  and through the instrument my pate made way ,
first ,  i must tell thee this: desdemona is directly in love with him .
that cuckold lives in bliss who ,  certain of his fate ,  loves not his wronger; but o ,  what damned minutes tells he o'er who dotes ,  yet doubts ,  suspects ,  yet strongly loves !
we’ll hear a play tomorrow .
but soft!
whence come you ?
yes, that thou didst.
meet me by and by at the citadel.
hast thou no mouth by land ?
dost thou love me ?
now, by the stock and honour of my kin, to strike him dead i hold it not a sin.
there's not a one of them but in his house i keep a servant fee'd .
what can be avoided whose end is purposed by the mighty gods ?
ho ,  daughter !
let her not walk i' th' sun .
no ,  sure ,  i cannot think it ,  that he would steal away so guiltylike ,  seeing you coming .
fathers ,  from hence trust not your daughters' minds by what you see them act .
they flatter me .
it is my soul that calls upon my name.
he’ll watch the horologe a double set if drink rock not his cradle .
all may be well.
yes ,  madam .
she well instructs me .
but ships are but boards, sailors but men: there be land-rats and water-rats, land-thieves and water-thieves; i mean, pirates; and then, there is the peril of waters, winds, and rocks.
gallus ,  go you along .
hush ,  thou think’st there is no more such shapes as he ,  having seen but him and caliban .
this morning are they fled away and gone ,  and in their steads do ravens ,  crows ,  and kites fly o'er our heads and downward look on us as we were sickly prey .
what wound did ever heal but by degrees?
you cannot better be employed ,  bassanio ,  than to live still and write mine epitaph .
how does the queen?
i am glad to see you well . — horatio ?
o, how my heart abhors to hear him nam'd and cannot come to him, to wreak the love i bore my cousin tybalt upon his body that hath slaughter'd him!
well ,  we will leave you then till dinnertime .
are we all met ?
what said he when he came unto himself ?
but ,  how ?
my lord ,  that would dishonour him .
is there a murderer here ?
come caesar to the capitol tomorrow ?
he never gave commandment for their death .
and these few precepts in thy memory see thou character.
farewell ,  good salisbury ,  and good luck go with thee .
i perceive these lords at this encounter do so much admire that they devour their reason and scarce think their eyes do offices of truth, these words are natural breath.
to sebastian] he'd sow't with or docks, or mallows.
but of that tomorrow, when therewithal we shall have cause of state craving us jointly.
tis but a man gone .
and fair she is ,  if that mine eyes be true .
he is wise ,  and ,  on my life ,  hath stol'n him home to bed .
by your patience, i needs must rest me.
i prithee, bear some charity to my wit; do not think it so unwholesome.
i must another way to fetch a ladder ,  by the which your love must climb a bird’s nest soon when it is dark .
despised substance of divinest show !
we are bound to the like .
i will fall prostrate at his feet and never rise until my tears and prayers have won his grace to come in person hither and take perforce my husband from the abbess .
make it so known .
how goes the world, sir, now?
here were the servants of your adversary and yours, close fighting ere i did approach.
marry ,  my child ,  early next thursday morn ,  the gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman ,  the county paris ,  at saint peter’s church ,  shall happily make thee there a joyful bride .
i never heard so musical a discord, such sweet thunder.
what was the last cry for?
o happy dagger!
saw you the king today ,  my lord of derby ?
some there be that shadows kiss .
seyton—i am sick at heart, when i behold—seyton, i say!—this push will cheer me ever or disseat me now.
you scarcely have the hearts to tell me so ,  and therefore cannot have the hearts to do it .
a dream itself is but a shadow.
quiet thy cudgel .
a noble ship of venice hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance on most part of their fleet .
but is this law ?
into my grave?
and wakes it now, to look so green and pale at what it did so freely?
no watch ?
do we trouble you ?
romeo!
thou'rt a scholar .
the concavities of it is not sufficient ,  for ,  look you ,  th' athversary ,  you may discuss unto the duke ,  look you ,  is digt himself four yard under the countermines .
i would not kill thy soul.
and ,  demetrius ,  the more you beat me ,  i will fawn on you .
none but his enemies.
would thou and those thy scars had once prevailed to make me fight at land !
i fear thou wilt once more come again for a ransom .
i will play the swan ,  and die in music .
noble banquo ,  that hast no less deserved ,  nor must be known no less to have done so; let me enfold thee and hold thee to my heart .
with news the time’s with labor ,  and throws forth each minute some .
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven ,  having some business ,  do entreat her eyes to twinkle in their spheres till they return .
so should the murdered look ,  and so should i ,  pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty .
sure it is hers .
i see that thou art poor .
where are they ?
no ,  madam .
a holy day shall this be kept hereafter .
let him be the devil ,  an he will ,  i care not .
what had he done to you?
thou seest we are not all alone unhappy .
light is an effect of fire ,  and fire will burn: ergo ,  light wenches will burn .
retire we to our chamber .
we will .
yea ,  just so much as you may take upon a knife’s point and choke a daw withal .
i will ,  my lord .
i had been happy if the general camp, pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body, so i had nothing known.
avaunt, and quit my sight!
give o'er the play.
have i ,  malvolio ?
o !
are all thy conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  spoils ,  shrunk to this little measure ?
let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool nowhere but in's own house.
but here’s a villain that would face me down he met me on the mart ,  and that i beat him and charged him with a thousand marks in gold ,  and that i did deny my wife and house . — thou drunkard ,  thou ,  what didst thou mean by this ?
how is't, brother?
will you dine with me tomorrow ?
and thou ,  all - shaking thunder ,  smite flat the thick rotundity o' th' world ,  crack nature’s molds ,  all germens spill at once that make ingrateful man !
lucillius and titinius ,  bid the commanders prepare to lodge their companies tonight .
nay ,  let me alone for swearing .
where are they ?
thy dukedom i resign and do entreat thou pardon me my wrongs .
tell me once more what title thou dost bear .
why he more than another ?
therefore ,  farewell .
your answer to that.
there are no tricks in plain and simple faith; but hollow men, like horses hot at hand, make gallant show and promise of their mettle; but when they should endure the bloody spur, they fall their crests and like deceitful jades sink in the trial.
tis the last service that i shall command you .
give me to know how this foul rout began, who set it on, and he that is approved in this offense, though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth, shall lose me.
macbeth.
now she holds me not .
i was the man i' the moon when time was .
there ,  my lord .
where did i leave ?
he would drown the stage with tears and cleave the general ear with horrid speech; make mad the guilty and appal the free ,  confound the ignorant ,  and amaze indeed the very faculties of eyes and ears .
one woe doth tread upon another’s heel ,  so fast they follow . —your sister’s drowned ,  laertes .
i do remember well where i should be ,  and there i am .
if my heart's dear love— well, do not swear.
upon condition publius shall not live ,  who is your sister’s son ,  mark antony .
how canst thou thus ,  for shame ,  titania ,  glance at my credit with hippolyta ,  knowing i know thy love to theseus ?
lend me your hand .
there's a poor piece of gold for thee.
were the world mine ,  demetrius being bated ,  the rest i’d give to be to you translated .
let me have a dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear as will disperse itself through all the veins that the life-weary taker may fall dead, and that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath as violently as hasty powder fir'd doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
i do not know, my lord, what i should think.
ay, in the temple, in the town, the field, you do me mischief.
you are full of pretty answers .
it is not possible .
aside .
come hither ,  leonato .
and what art thou ,  thou idol ceremony ?
the town is empty; on the brow o' the sea stand ranks of people ,  and they cry ,   “ a sail !  ”  my hopes do shape him for the governor .
so hangs and lolls and weeps upon me; so hales and pulls me .
my lord, i will not.
o, much i fear some ill unlucky thing.
what should be spoken here ,  where our fate ,  hid in an auger - hole ,  may rush and seize us ?
you charge me most unjustly .
but is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration?
take a trumpet ,  herald .
ready .
i heard nothing .
if i do it ,  let the audience look to their eyes; i will move storms; i will condole in some measure .
and sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring forth more islands.
alas ,  i took great pains to study it ,  and ’tis poetical .
now ,  by my maidenhead at twelve year old i bade her come .
a bloody deed.
no ,  no ,  forsooth ,  i dare not for my life .
nay ,  let me praise you ,  while i have a stomach .
for lo!
if you do sweat to put a tyrant down ,  you sleep in peace ,  the tyrant being slain .
tis the curse of service ,  preferment goes by letter and affection ,  and not by old gradation ,  where each second stood heir to the first .
i am sorry for thee; thou art come to answer a stony adversary, an inhuman wretch uncapable of pity, void and empty from any dram of mercy.
patience ,  good sir .
i would entreat you rather to put on your boldest suit of mirth ,  for we have friends that purpose merriment .
how came you ,  cassio ,  by that handkerchief that was my wife's ?
who is't that cried !
doth not the day break here ?
i'll warrant she'll tax him home; and, as you said, and wisely was it said, 'tis meet that some more audience than a mother, since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear the speech, of vantage.
welcome ,  my lord .
my child, my only life!
ay .
my tables ! —meet it is i set it down that one may smile ,  and smile ,  and be a villain .
the poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree ,  sing all a green willow; her hand on her bosom ,  her head on her knee ,  sing willow ,  willow ,  willow .
we’ll bury him ,  and then ,  what’s brave ,  what’s noble ,  let’s do ’t after the high roman fashion and make death proud to take us .
lord ,  how art thou changed !
the powers of the kingdom approach apace .
twill out ,  'twill .
your cake there is warm within; you stand here in the cold .
o ,  wilt thou darkling leave me ?
tucket once more i come to know of thee ,  king harry ,  if for thy ransom thou wilt now compound ,  before thy most assurèd overthrow .
it was the nightingale ,  and not the lark ,  that pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear .
how have i offended ?
though others have the arm ,  show us the sleeve; we in your motion turn ,  and you may move us .
then is caesar and he forever knit together .
why do we wrap the gen- tleman in our more rawer breath?
though i am mad ,  i will not bite him .
o serpent heart ,  hid with a flow'ring face !
and yonder ,  caesar .
i durst ,  my lord ,  to wager she is honest ,  lay down my soul at stake .
the man i'th’ moon ?
well, may you see things well done there, adieu, lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
i do embrace your offer; and dispose for henceforth of poor claudio .
if it were now to die, 'twere now to be most happy; for i fear my soul hath her content so absolute that not another comfort like to this succeeds in unknown fate.
king stephen was a worthy peer ,  his breeches cost him but a crown; he held them sixpence all too dear ,  with that he call'd the tailor lown .
i do believe that these applauses are for some new honors that are heaped on caesar .
what ,  juliet !
thou art dromio ,  thou art my man ,  thou art thyself .
be certain ,  nothing truer .
for me ,  three thousand ducats .
so ,  fare thee well .
ay, he spoke greek.
ay ,  honest .
see, there she lies, flower as she was, deflowered by him.
first ,  forward to the temple; after dinner your hazard shall be made .
no ,  caesar ,  we will answer on their charge .
and i am witness with her that she did .
how is't with me, when every noise appals me?
why ,  it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes ,  and the clerestories toward the south - north are as lustrous as ebony .
it will be rain tonight .
portia ,  art thou gone ?
how shalt thou hope for mercy ,  rendering none ?
then i salute you with this royal title: long live richard ,  england’s worthy king !
i passed ,  methought ,  the melancholy flood ,  with that sour ferryman which poets write of ,  unto the kingdom of perpetual night .
for none, neither.
for your coming in to dinner ,  sir ,  why ,  let it be as humours and conceits shall govern .
they fell together all ,  as by consent .
but my uncle - father and aunt - mother are deceived .
lights, lights, lights!
for shame, you generals!
o lamentable day !
this found i on my tent this morning .
i am the greatest ,  able to do least ,  yet most suspected ,  as the time and place doth make against me ,  of this direful murder; and here i stand ,  both to impeach and purge myself condemned and myself excus'd .
the players cannot keep counsel .
plucks off my beard and blows it in my face ?
i have an interest in your hate's proceeding ,  my blood for your rude brawls doth lie ableeding; but i'll amerce you with so strong a fine that you shall all repent the loss of mine .
i tell you what you shall do .
no, it is casca, one incorporate to our attempts.
away !
what ,  we have many goodly days to see !
or did i dream it so?
this is thy negligence .
how dost thou, sweet lord?
farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump ,  the spirit - stirring drum ,  th' ear - piercing fife ,  the royal banner ,  and all quality ,  pride ,  pomp ,  and circumstance of glorious war !
come hither ,  come !
wilt thou go with me?
twas i indeed thou promised’st to strike ,  and thou hast given me most bitter terms .
it is so .
lord ,  how it looks about !
i fear it, i promise you.
can he vent trinculos ?
if you could hurt, your swords are now too massy for your strengths and will not be uplifted.
for you see ,  it is already in snuff .
for murder ,  though it have no tongue ,  will speak with most miraculous organ .
o, yet i do repent me of my fury, that i did kill them.
twas i ,  but ’tis not i .  i do not shame to tell you what i was ,  since my conversion so sweetly tastes ,  being the thing i am .
give me some ink and paper .
being thus benetted round with villainies— or i could make a prologue to my brains ,  they had begun the play—i sat me down ,  devised a new commission ,  wrote it fair .
how low am i, thou painted maypole?
i am grumio’s pledge .
marry ,  i would not do such a thing for a joint - ring ,  nor for measures of lawn ,  nor for gowns ,  petticoats ,  nor caps ,  nor any petty exhibition .
is that any thing now ?
ha!
what dost thou say ?
we learn no other but the confident tyrant keeps still in dunsinane ,  and will endure our setting down before't .
meantime i writ to romeo that he should hither come as this dire night to help to take her from her borrowed grave ,  being the time the potion's force should cease .
i beseech you ,  follow straight .
your children shall be kings.
your plantain leaf is excellent for that .
what if this mixture do not work at all?
as i discern ,  it burneth in the capels’ monument .
nay ,  but i bar to - night; you shall not gage me by what we do to - night .
observe his inclination in yourself .
nay ,  i will do so .
and since the quarrel will bear no color for the thing he is ,  fashion it thus: that what he is ,  augmented ,  would run to these and these extremities .
then i would you were so honest a man.
thieves!
but that i do not .
and leave out thee ?
why, so: being gone, i am a man again.
one aloof stand sentinel .
though thou canst swim like a duck ,  thou art made like a goose .
if you do stir abroad ,  go armed .
albeit you have deserved high commendation ,  true applause ,  and love ,  yet such is now the duke’s condition that he misconsters all that you have done .
it beckons you to go away with it, as if it some impartment did desire to you alone.
hark ,  a word with you .
i like it not .
gone ,  sir .
ingrateful fox ,  ’tis he .
well ,  i may chance to see you ,  for i would very fain speak with you .
why then, thus it is: you must prepare your bosom for his knife.
o ,  then ,  dear saint ,  let lips do what hands do .
how ?
then you shall be his surety .
count claudio ?
no matter whither ,  so you come not here .
if it might please you to enforce no further the griefs between ye ,  to forget them quite were to remember that the present need speaks to atone you .
be near at hand; i may miscarry in't .
these evils thou repeat'st upon thyself have banish'd me from scotland.
when thou once wast beaten from modena ,  where thou slew’st hirtius and pansa ,  consuls ,  at thy heel did famine follow ,  whom thou fought’st against ,  though daintily brought up ,  with patience more than savages could suffer .
well, sit we down, and let us hear bernardo speak of this.
a very ribbon in the cap of youth ,  yet needful too; for youth no less becomes the light and careless livery that it wears than settled age his sables and his weeds ,  importing health and graveness .
find out moonshine ,  find out moonshine !
put your bonnet to his right use .
it fell upon a little western flower ,  before milk - white ,  now purple with love’s wound .
how is't with you?
fly ,  therefore ,  noble cassius ,  fly far off .
whether he was combined with those of norway ,  or did line the rebel with hidden help and vantage ,  or that with both he labored in his country’s wrack ,  i know not; but treasons capital ,  confessed and proved ,  have overthrown him .
tis late .
welcome hither .
they could be content to visit other places ,  and come down with fearful bravery ,  thinking by this face to fasten in our thoughts that they have courage .
foul shame upon you ,  you have all moved mine .
i urged you further; then you scratch'd your head ,  and too impatiently stamp'd with your foot .
what is the matter ?
fare you well.
my lord !
such bugs and goblins in my life, that on the supervise, no leisure bated, no, not to stay the grinding of the axe, my head should be struck off.
the queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit hath sent me to you.
nay ,  i’ll conjure too !
the more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends .
oh ,  is ’t come to this ?
pish !
the same indeed; a very valiant fellow.
wouldst thou do such a thing for all the world?
he ,  he ,  ’tis he .
give mine the benefit of seigniory ,  and let my griefs frown on the upper hand .
would you ,  the supervisor ,  grossly gape on ,  behold her topped ?
i would your duty were as foolish too .
all other devils that suggest by treasons do botch and bungle up damnation with patches ,  colors ,  and with forms being fetched from glist'ring semblances of piety .
cicero one!
and be these juggling fiends no more believed ,  that palter with us in a double sense ,  that keep the word of promise to our ear ,  and break it to our hope .
look down ,  you gods ,  and on this couple drop a blessèd crown ,  for it is you that have chalked forth the way which brought us hither .
he is sad and civil and suits well for a servant with my fortunes .
ay, marry, must you; for you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
in your own kingdom ,  sir .
well ,  peace be with you ,  sir .
are these ,  i pray you ,  wind instruments ?
i will piece out the comfort with what addition i can .
nay ,  that follows not .
what hast thou been ?
meantime ,  have patience .
i know the glove is a glove .
soft ,  comes he not here ?
take heed you fall not .
the readiest way to make the wench amends is to become her husband and her father; the which will i ,  not all so much for love as for another secret close intent by marrying her which i must reach unto .
a torch for me!
he embraces gonzalo] [he embraces gonzalo] whither this be or be not ,  i'll not swear .
there are some shrewd contents in yond same paper that steals the color from bassanio’s cheek .
kill men i' th' dark !
will you grant with me that ferdinand is drowned ?
but i would be loath to fall into my dreams again .
your answer ,  sir ,  is enigmatical .
for ,  look you ,  how cheerfully my mother looks ,  and my father died within these two hours .
you wrong'd yourself to write in such a case.
i pray you give me leave to go from hence: i am not well; send the deed after me, and i will sign it.
come ,  nerissa .
fair is foul ,  and foul is fair .
the clock hath stricken three .
farewell .
for nature, crescent, does not grow alone in thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes, the inward service of the mind and soul grows wide withal.
the barbarous scythian ,  or he that makes his generation messes to gorge his appetite ,  shall to my bosom be as well neighbored ,  pitied ,  and relieved as thou my sometime daughter .
it was about to speak when the cock crew .
his captain’s heart ,  which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst the buckles on his breast ,  reneges all temper and is become the bellows and the fan to cool a gypsy’s lust .
tis better as it is.
he heareth not ,  he stirreth not ,  be moveth not; the ape is dead ,  and i must conjure him .
so should a murderer look ,  so dead ,  so grim .
i pray you go with me .
your flashes of merriment, that were wont to set the table on a roar?
where is my love ?
she will indite him to some supper.
hast thou forgot thyself ?
give me my sword .
no more yet of this, for ‘tis a chronicle of day by day, not a relation for a breakfast, nor befitting this first meeting.
the time will bring it out .
ha !
next month with us .
oh ,  heaven forgive us !
the heavens forbid but that our loves and comforts should increase, even as our days do grow!
come on .
if i owe you anything ,  i will pay you in cudgels .
though far more cause ,  yet much less spirit to curse abides in me .
titinius ,  if thou lovest me ,  mount thou my horse ,  and hide thy spurs in him till he have brought thee up to yonder troops and here again ,  that i may rest assured whether yond troops are friend or enemy .
it pleases your worship to say so ,  but we are the poor duke’s officers .
she cannot love nor take no shape nor project of affection she is so self - endeared .
nor i neither ,  by this heavenly light .
but i will tarry .
so you shall .
a pox of drowning thyself !
god be with you .
i do, mark antony.
mine eyes do itch ,  doth that bode weeping ?
alas, my lord, what may you mean by that?
give me thy arm .
none ,  but that ugly treason of mistrust ,  which makes me fear the enjoying of my love: there may as well be amity and life 'tween snow and fire ,  as treason and my love .
no more but so ?
i arrest thee of high treason ,  by the name of thomas grey ,  knight ,  of northumberland .
you know, sometimes he walks four hours together here in the lobby.
go but with me tonight ,  you shall see her chamber window entered ,  even the night before her wedding day .
in the meantime, let me be thought too busy in my fears— as worthy cause i have to fear i am— and hold her free, i do beseech your honor.
or as ’twere perfumed by a fen.
i’ll tell thee ,  charles: it is the stubbornest young fellow of france ,  full of ambition ,  an envious emulator of every man’s good parts ,  a secret and villainous contriver against me his natural brother .
pardon not that .
and ,  to inure thyself to what thou art like to be ,  cast thy humble slough and appear fresh .
and the queen too ,  and that presently .
i dare not ,  dear ,  dear my lord ,  pardon ,  i dare not ,  lest i be taken .
i do attend here on the general and think it no addition ,  nor my wish ,  to have him see me womaned .
soft!
what dost thou mean by this ?
ourself will mingle with society and play the humble host .
send to his brother .
hath an argosy cast away coming from tripolis .
sit ,  sir .
if it will please you to show us so much gentry and good will as to expend your time with us awhile for the supply and profit of our hope, your visitation shall receive such thanks as fits a king's remembrance.
but it is doubtful yet whether caesar will come forth today or no ,  for he is superstitious grown of late ,  quite from the main opinion he held once of fantasy ,  of dreams and ceremonies .
what's the boy malcolm ?
that done ,  i will be walking on the works ,  repair there to me .
god 'a'mercy on his soul!
if that thy bent of love be honourable, thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow, by one that i'll procure to come to thee, where and what time thou wilt perform the rite; and all my fortunes at thy foot i'll lay and follow thee my lord throughout the world.
how much salt water thrown away in waste, to season love, that of it doth not taste!
my fingers itch .
ere the bat hath flown his cloistered flight ,  ere to black hecate’s summons the shard - borne beetle with his drowsy hums hath rung night’s yawning peal ,  there shall be done a deed of dreadful note .
ah ,  my good lord ,  what have i seen tonight !
signior antonio!
then if we lose this battle you are contented to be led in triumph thorough the streets of rome ?
well ,  do you so: let not me take him then ,  for if i do ,  i'll mar the young clerk's pen .
before you can say ‘come’ and ‘go , ’ and breathe twice and cry ‘so ,  so , ’ each one ,  tripping on his toe will be here with mop and mow .
how now ,  roderigo !
nay ,  take my life and all .
by and by .
blow, till thou burst thy wind, if room enough!
who you are and what you would are out of my welkin ,  i might say  “ element ,  ”  but the word is overworn .
petruchio ,  patience .
wherein hath caesar thus deserved your loves?
ay, very well, my lord.
speak .
safe ,  antony ,  brutus is safe enough .
he’s as good at anything and yet a fool .
tis said they eat each other .
look you ,  she loved her kinsman tybalt dearly ,  and so did i .
if thou say so ,  withdraw ,  and prove it too .
i rather think you have not sought her help ,  of whose soft grace for the like loss i have her sovereign aid ,  and rest myself content .
my will, not all the world!
one, gentlewoman, that god hath made for himself to mar.
first ,  rehearse your song by rote ,  to each word a warbling note .
thou worms' meat in respect of a good piece of flesh ,  indeed .
sooth, madam, i hear nothing.
ay ,  if i know the letters and the language .
then i must be thy lady; but i know when thou hast stolen away from fairy land, and in the shape of corin sat all day, playing on pipes of corn, and versing love to amorous phillida.
almost afraid to know itself .
go thy ways, wench; serve god.
quick ,  quick !
by heaven ,  it is as proper to our age to cast beyond ourselves in our opinions as it is common for the younger sort to lack discretion .
what unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
what do you here ?
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead ,  and paris too .
we ,  hermia ,  like two artificial gods ,  have with our needles created both one flower ,  both on one sampler ,  sitting on one cushion ,  both warbling of one song ,  both in one key; as if our hands ,  our sides ,  voices ,  and minds ,  had been incorporate .
pursue him and entreat him to a peace .
witness you that he is borne about invisible .
a lover ,  or a tyrant ?
when caesar says “do this,” it is perform'd.
peace ,  children ,  peace .
what ,  have you lost your wits ?
at supper .
i have no ambition to see a goodlier man .
there be some such, no question.
i will roar that i will do any man's heart good to hear me; i will roar, that i will make the duke say ‘let him roar again, let him roar again.’ an you should do it too terribly, you would fright the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek; and that were enough to hang us all.
ladies that have their toes unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you.
what’s the matter ,  dear ?
the honor is sacred which he talks on now ,  supposing that i lacked it . —but ,  on ,  caesar .
i will be strange ,  stout ,  in yellow stockings ,  and cross - gartered ,  even with the swiftness of putting on .
for hear me ,  hero ,  wooing ,  wedding ,  and repenting is as a scotch jig ,  a measure ,  and a cinquepace .
that a maiden’s heart hath burned ?
only to despite them ,  i will endeavor anything .
this night—wherein the cub - drawn bear would couch ,  the lion and the belly - pinchèd wolf keep their fur dry—unbonneted he runs ,  and bids what will take all .
what is the matter ,  my lord ?
my lord bassanio ,  let him have the ring .
didst thou see any thing ?
what a sigh is there !
i hear it by the way ,  but i will send .
hence ,  bashful cunning !
at sardis once ,  and this last night here in philippi fields .
and all for nothing !
alas ,  who knows ?
he cannot be heard of .
condemned villain, i do apprehend thee.
is it not past two o'clock ?
this ,  by his voice ,  should be a montague . —   what ,  dares the slave come hither ,  covered with an antic face ,  to fleer and scorn at our solemnity ?
the fault ,  dear brutus ,  is not in our stars but in ourselves ,  that we are underlings .
say to the king i would attend his leisure for a few words.
mistress !
so rare a wondered father and a wife makes this place paradise .
do not say ‘banishment . ’ hence from verona art thou banished .
go to, away!
think ,  my lord ?
the like is on her arm .
we thank your honor .
he cannot speak ,  my lord .
prison, my lord?
i had as lief thou didst break his neck as his finger .
dost thou think alexander looked o' this fashion i' th' earth ?
he always loved our sister most ,  and with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off appears too grossly .
iago is most honest.
it is a tale told by an idiot ,  full of sound and fury ,  signifying nothing .
farewell.
what is your pleasure ?
i did, my lord, and i have reason for it.
i doubt not of your wisdom .
i beseech your pardon .
do you not hope your children shall be kings ,  when those that gave the thane of cawdor to me promised no less to them ?
i'll fetch them, sir.
be kind and courteous to this gentleman .
this deed will be well welcome to lorenzo .
it was my turquoise .
buy food ,  and get thyself in flesh . — come ,  cordial and not poison ,  go with me to juliet’s grave ,  for there must i use thee .
i’ll grow a talker for this gear .
tell us what hath chanced today that caesar looks so sad .
o god ,  your only jig - maker !
speak softly .
am i in france ?
now must the world point at poor katherine and say ,   “ lo ,  there is mad petruchio’s wife ,  if it would please him come and marry her !  ”    upon my life ,  petruchio means but well ,  whatever fortune stays him from his word: though he be blunt ,  i know him passing wise; though he be merry ,  yet withal he’s honest .
what mean'st thou by that?
go thou .
shylock ,  there’s thrice thy money offered thee .
cuckold me !
god will revenge it ,  whom i will importune with earnest prayers ,  all to that effect .
ay, marry, wast, and he put it by thrice, every time gentler than other, and at every putting by mine honest neighbors shouted.
here he comes with your niece .
the urging of that word  “ judgment ”  hath bred a kind of remorse in me .
nay ,  that’s certain .
woe to the land that’s governed by a child .
know him ?
edgar i nothing am .
soul of rome!
his hour is almost past .
god save you ,  sir !
that ?
i do not bid thee call .
caesar ,  beware of brutus .
what say you to a neat’s foot ?
prithee ,  if thou lovest me ,  tell me .
this may flies do ,  when i from this must fly; they are free men ,  but i am banished .
there’s one at the gate .
no, my brutus, you have some sick offense within your mind, which by the right and virtue of my place i ought to know of; and, upon my knees, i charm you, by my once commended beauty, by all your vows of love and that great vow which did incorporate and make us one, that you unfold to me, yourself, your half, why you are heavy, and what men tonight have had resort to you; for here have been some six or seven, who did hide their faces even from darkness.
where is he ?
i’ll tell the news .
i will be gone ,  sir ,  and not trouble you .
look how thy servants do attend on thee ,  each in his office ready at thy beck .
by my heel ,  i care not .
how otherwise?— will you be ruled by me?
but one ,  poor one ,  one poor and loving child ,  but one thing to rejoice and solace in ,  and cruel death hath catched it from my sight !
tear him for his bad verses ,  tear him for his bad verses .
your worship in that sense may call him man.
why, there, there, there, there!
i hope better .
no more of drowning ,  do you hear ?
arise ,  arise ,  awake the snorting citizens with the bell or else the devil will make a grandsire of you .
none, man; all idle: whores and knaves.
is antony or we in fault for this ?
all hail ,  macbeth !
thou hast quarreled with a man for coughing in the street because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun .
who steals my purse steals trash .
the very same.
how smooth and even they do bear themselves ,  as if allegiance in their bosoms sat crownèd with faith and constant loyalty .
hail !
why no ,  no more than reason .
tell me for more certainty ,  albeit i’ll swear that i do know your tongue .
the life ”  ?
o, yes, my lord!
what is the reason of this terrible summons?
prithee ,  peace .
tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence and bear it to the chapel.
there's another .
bring him before us.
hie you to horse .
now romeo is belov'd, and loves again, alike bewitched by the charm of looks; but to his foe suppos'd he must complain, and she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.
i have done no more to caesar than you shall do to brutus .
my clerk hath some good comforts too for you .
i am now in great haste ,  as it may appear unto you .
faith ,  that was not so well; yet would i knew that stroke would prove the worst !
he will find it comes from a clodpole .
like her ?
i know thy quality .
is not parchment made of sheepskins?
what ,  are they children ?
what day is this ?
well said !
o proud death ,  what feast is toward in thine eternal cell that thou so many princes at a shot so bloodily hast struck ?
no more !
thou protector of this damnèd strumpet ,  talk’st thou to me of  “ ifs ”  ?
bring it after me.
the direful spectacle of the wreck, which touched the very virtue of compassion in thee, i have with such provision in mine art so safely ordered that there is no soul— no, not so much perdition as an hair betid to any creature in the vessel which thou heard'st cry, which though saw'st sink.
he will come straight.
in troth, i think thou wouldst not.
a friend .
good cheer ,  antonio !
god pardon him !
i am not well in health ,  and that is all .
i never did repent for doing good ,  nor shall not now; for in companions that do converse and waste the time together ,  whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love ,  there must be needs a like proportion of lineaments ,  of manners ,  and of spirit; which makes me think ,  that this antonio ,  being the bosom lover of my lord ,  must needs be like my lord .
macbeth !
larded all with sweet flowers; which bewept to the grave did not go with true - love showers .
is he dispatch'd?
lay them in gore ,  since you have shore with shears his thread of silk .
they stared ,  and were distracted .
i serve as good a man as you .
here do you keep a hundred knights and squires ,  men so disordered ,  so debauched and bold that this our court ,  infected with their manners ,  shows like a riotous inn .
good old knight ,  collect them all together at my tent .
shall i hear from you anon ?
this deed i’ll do before this purpose cool .
go to thy cold bed and warm thee .
your will ?
pat, pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place for our rehearsal.
who will go with me ?
but two months dead!
madam ,  i will .
oh ,  what a world is this when what is comely envenoms him that bears it !
am i not an inch of fortune better than she ?
o gentle lady, do not put me to't; for i am nothing if not critical.
are you sure that we are awake ?
stand from the body .
i would it might be hangers till then .
he begins at curfew and walks till the first cock .
nymph, in thy orisons be all my sins remembered.
in both my eyes he doubly sees himself: in each eye ,  one:—swear by your double self ,  and there's an oath of credit .
my dearest love ,  duncan comes here tonight .
would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust ?
and i ,  delivering you ,  am satisfied ,  and therein do account myself well paid .
nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses ,  therefore use none .
the worms were hallowed that did breed the silk ,  and it was dyed in mummy which the skillful conserved of maidens' hearts .
to gonzalo] the air breathes upon us here most [to gonzalo] the air breathes upon us here most sweetly.
cassio did top her ,  ask thy husband else .
i am very glad of it .
commend me to my kind lord .
but ,  by your favor ,  how near’s the other army ?
away!
call, good mercutio.
mine ache to think on't.
feeling so the loss ,  cannot choose but ever weep the friend .
come, come, you're drunk.
now ,  god help thee ,  poor monkey !
why not ,  my lord ?
effect it with some care, that he may prove more fond on her than she upon her love.
trick up with new - tuned oaths; and what a beard of the general’s cut and a horrid suit of the camp will do among foaming bottles and ale - washed wits is wonderful to be thought on .
i will carry no crotchets .
i am very ill at ease ,  unfit for mine own purposes .
you speak too bitterly .
his royal grace ,  whom god preserve better than you would wish ,  cannot be quiet scarce a breathing while but you must trouble him with lewd complaints .
i must once in a month recount what thou hast been ,  which thou forget'st .
there are yet missing of your company some few odd lads that you remember not .
take heed ,  take heed ,  for such die miserable .
but we have reason to cool our raging motions ,  our carnal stings ,  our unbitted lusts .
how now ,  mistress ?
it was in place where i could not breed no contention with him ,  but i will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till i see him once again ,  and then i will tell him a little piece of my desires .
good sir, be a man; think every bearded fellow that's but yoked may draw with you.
sir, i obey the mandate, and will return to venice.
come ,  what says romeo ?
but ’tis a spirit .
you look angerly .
we will not fail .
o, no; he goes into mauritania, and takes away with him the fair desdemona, unless his abode be lingered here by some accident; wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of cassio.
good sir toby !
farewell .
did not great julius bleed for justice' sake ?
withdraw ,  my lord .
what is this, that rises like the issue of a king, and wears upon his baby brow the round and top of sovereignty?
welcome ,  good friends .
what canst thou swear by now ?
the enemy comes on in gallant show; their bloody sign of battle is hung out ,  and something to be done immediately .
is't possible?
so white ,  and such a traitor ?
help ,  ho !
and let him play his music .
madam ,  you have bereft me of all words; only my blood speaks to you in my veins ,  and there is such confusion in my powers ,  as ,  after some oration fairly spoke by a beloved prince ,  there doth appear among the buzzing pleased multitude; where every something ,  being blent together ,  turns to a wild of nothing ,  save of joy ,  express'd and not express'd .
that's not so .
i commend your pains ,  and every one shall share i' th' gains .
god for thy mercy ,  they are loose again !
yet what can it when one can not repent ?
give this ring to my true knight and bid him come to take his last farewell .
trust to't.
tonight ,  my lord ?
ariel sings in gonzalo's ear] [ariel sings in gonzalo's ear] while you here do snoring lie, open-eyed conspiracy his time doth take.
i think so too .
such have but a shadow’s bliss .
a strange fish!
o traitors ,  villains !
in faith ,  she’s too curst .
pretty too!
come ,  is the bride ready to go to church ?
cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once .
what is the matter there ?
you shall close prisoner rest, till that the nature of your fault be known to the venetian state.
i am too bold; 'tis not to me she speaks.
honey, you shall be well desired in cyprus; i have found great love amongst them.
fortune is merry, and in this mood will give us any thing.
but that they call  “ compliment ”  is like th' encounter of two dog -  apes .
an you re us and fa us, you note us.
bite him to death, i prithee.
despise me if i do not .
i must hence to wait .
the king and prince at prayers .
thou torturest me ,  tubal: it was my turquoise: i had it of leah ,  when i was a bachelor: i would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys .
marry them to your heirs !
lay her i' the earth; and from her fair and unpolluted flesh may violets spring !
die two months ago ,  and not forgotten yet ?
what said my man ,  when my betossèd soul did not attend him as we rode ?
alas ,  poor ghost !
it shall be done ,  my lord .
a tanner will last you nine year .
what is the opinion of pythagoras concerning wildfowl ?
be thou my witness that against my will ,  as pompey was ,  am i compelled to set upon one battle all our liberties .
let us swear that you are worth your breeding ,  which i doubt not ,
what demi-god hath come so near creation?
sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if philosophy could find it out.
what is ,  my lord ?
i have so often blushed to acknowledge him that now i am brazed to it .
how can these things in me seem scorn to you ,  bearing the badge of faith to prove them true ?
i kiss'd thee ere i kill'd thee .
hark thee ,  dardanius .
none, brutus, none.
where is my wife ?
why, go to bed and sleep.
couch we awhile, and mark.
what need we fear who knows it ,  when none can call our power to account ?
o ,  if thou wert the noblest of thy strain ,  young man ,  thou couldst not die more honorable .
who was the thane lives yet ,  but under heavy judgement bears that life which he deserves to lose .
believe me ,  no .
where is thy blush ?
let me speak proudly: tell the constable we are but warriors for the working day; our gayness and our gilt are all besmirched with rainy marching in the painful field .
a contract of true love to celebrate; and some donation freely to estate on the blest lovers.
it is ,  my lord .
i am constant to my purpose .
old montague is come ,  and flourishes his blade in spite of me .
why he more than another?
if i had thee in lipsbury pinfold ,  i would make thee care for me .
let no such man be trusted .
you must to parthia .
in thy foul throat thou liest .
i find not myself disposed to sleep.
every one .
if he ,  compact of jars ,  grow musical ,  we shall have shortly discord in the spheres .
but for all this ,  when i shall tread upon the tyrant's head ,  or wear it on my sword ,  yet my poor country shall have more vices than it had before ,  more suffer and more sundry ways than ever ,  by him that shall succeed .
the hour of death is expiate .
belovèd regan ,  thy sister’s naught .
what does the tyrant ?
what wilt thou tell her, nurse?
you did.
we’ll beat ’em into bench - holes .
how came you thus recovered?
why ,  lady !
and so fare thee well .
of all the wonders that i yet have heard ,  it seems to me most strange that men should fear ,  seeing that death ,  a necessary end ,  will come when it will come .
sound ,  music .
o dear ophelia ,  i am ill at these numbers .
i'll see it done.
sir ,  i have not you by the hand .
barnardo ?
villainous whore !
fare - well .
i give him curses, yet he gives me love.
where is thy leather apron and thy rule ?
yea ,  even i alone .
serious vanity !
i remember him well ,  and i remember him worthy of thy praise .
in happy time.
not in love neither ?
one–two— why then ’tis time to do't .
could my good brother suffer you to do it— a man ,  a prince by him so benefited ?
you do remember all the circumstance?
lysander !
if the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most preposterous conclusions.
a right good markman !
you stand amazed ,  but be of comfort .
a solemn air and the best comforter to an unsettled fancy cure thy brains ,  now useless ,  boiled within thy skull . —there stand ,  for you are spell - stopped . —   mine eyes ,  ev'n sociable to the show of thine ,  fall fellowly drops .
i know his trumpet .
under your pardon.
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ?
to prayers ,  to prayers ,  all lost !
o life!
you must contrary me !
richard of york ,  how fares our loving brother ?
why wouldst thou be a breeder of sinners ?
so have i heard and do in part believe it.
the devil himself could not pronounce a title more hateful to mine ear .
i have thee not, and yet i see thee still.
that matter is answered directly .
what shall we hear of this ?
no ,  faith ,  lords and great men will not let me .
ay ,  mother ,  but i would not have it so .
where is your son ?
what conrade !
i am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me, for i am much asham'd of my exchange: but love is blind, and lovers cannot see the pretty follies that themselves commit; for if they could, cupid himself would blush, to see me thus transformed to a boy.
welcome ,  gentlemen !
judgment !
i cry you mercy.
how yet resolves the governor of the town ?
the king rises .
i am tied to th' stake ,  and i must stand the course .
is it concluded that he shall be protector ?
speak !
i do now let loose my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no fish, but an islander that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt.
ay ,  sooth ,  so humbled that he hath left part of his grief with me to suffer with him .
nay, that's not so.
this is venice; my house is not a grange .
i could be well moved if i were as you .
o ,  yet defend me ,  friends !
mine, sir.
why didst thou send me forth ,  brave cassius ?
how ?
through the house give glimmering light, by the dead and drowsy fire; every elf and fairy sprite hop as light as bird from brier; and this ditty, after me, sing and dance it trippingly.
sirrah, what made your master in this place?
is rosaline ,  whom thou didst love so dear ,  so soon forsaken ?
and when i have my meed ,  i will away ,  for this will out ,  and then i must not stay .
i see a voice; now will i to the chink, to spy an i can hear my thisbe's face.
yea ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ dost thou fall upon thy face ?
old montague is come and flourishes his blade in spite of me .
from both ,  my lord .
well ,  in that hit you miss .
i met the youthful lord at lawrence' cell ,  and gave him what becomèd love i might ,  not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty .
or ,  if his mind be writ ,  give me his letter .
the god of jupiter .
i think thou art an ass .
i will go along .
nym ,  thou hast spoke the right .
the ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain ,  the ploughman lost his sweat ,  and the green corn hath rotted ere his youth attained a beard .
you may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar .
for that it is not night when i do see your face, therefore i think i am not in the night; nor doth this wood lack worlds of company, for you, in my respect, are all the world.
you may think i love you not .
we must out and talk .
and mine ,  but it grows something stale with me .
my lord ,  whoever journeys to the prince ,  for god’s sake let not us two at home .
take no note of him .
did these bones cost no more the breeding ,  but to play at loggets with 'em ?
if ever thou come to me and say ,  after tomorrow ,   “ this is my glove ,  ”  by this hand i will take thee a box on the ear .
use them after your own honour and dignity .
you do love my lord .
give me answer to it.
therefore exhale .
my lord ,  it shall be done .
if all else fail, myself have power to die.
news from verona !
look ,  and thou shalt see .
lysander’s love ,  that would not let him bide ,  fair helena ,  who more engilds the night than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light .
a foolish heart that i leave here behind .
the man i'th’ moon?
you speak like a green girl, unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
therefore be patient .
that will never be.
i should be wise ,  for honesty’s a fool and loses that it works for .
murder ?
bring me word how tall she is .
i will be faithful .
so it appears by that i have to say .
hath he ask'd for me?
i'll show thee the best springs; i'll pluck thee berries; i'll fish for thee ,  and get thee wood enough .
when is the royal day ?
that's strange.
that we would do ,  we should do when we would; for this 'would' changes ,  and hath abatements and delays as many as there are tongues ,  are hands ,  are accidents; and then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh ,  that hurts by easing .
what a change is here !
untimely storms make men expect a dearth .
who’s there ?
and shall i couple hell ?
and i beseech you instantly to visit my too much changed son.
ready ,  so please your grace .
tell them so, decius.
one scene of it comes near the circumstance, which i have told thee, of my father's death.
it was, so please your highness.
to think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten entertainment the players shall receive from you.
good !
proceed ,  moon .
yet ’tis the plague to great ones ,  prerogatived are they less than the base .
what means this shouting?
i will live in thy heart ,  die in thy lap ,  and be buried in thy eyes—and moreover ,  i will go with thee to thy uncle’s .
your worship is deceived .
now ,  good sweet nurse— o lord ,  why look’st thou sad ?
that shall she .
come on ,  trinculo ,  let us sing .
there is ten thousand— geese ,  villain ?
i would i were as sure of a good dinner .
how does he love me ?
but i’ll see you soon .
i would not be the villain that thou think'st for the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp and the rich east to boot .
hark !
good countrymen ,  let me depart alone .
i warrant your honour .
show me ,  my women ,  like a queen .
did not you speak ?
that most ingrateful boy there by your side from the rude sea’s enraged and foamy mouth did i redeem .
here catesby comes again .
o ,  that we then could come by caesar's spirit ,  and not dismember caesar !
no ,  my good lord .
and ere i take this charm from off her sight ,  as i can take it with another herb ,  i'll make her render up her page to me .
i have been sexton here, man and boy, thirty years.
open ,  locks ,  whoever knocks .
hates any man the thing he would not kill?
i am a very villain else.
the lover, all as frantic, sees helen's beauty in a brow of egypt.
i dare abide no longer.
sometime a horse i’ll be ,  sometime a hound ,  a hog ,  a headless bear ,  sometime a fire .
what villains have done this ?
ah, the immortal passado!
near to her close and consecrated bower, while she was in her dull and sleeping hour, a crew of patches, rude mechanicals, that work for bread upon athenian stalls, were met together to rehearse a play, intended for great theseus' nuptial-day.
thy brutus bid me give it thee ,  and i will do his bidding .
we two ,  my lord ,  will guard your person while you take your rest and watch your safety .
some twenty of them fought in this black strife ,  and all those twenty could but kill one life .
cleopatra hath nodded him to her .
when you have spoken your speech ,  enter into that brake . —and so everyone according to his cue .
why have you left the chamber ?
no, i warrant you; i will not adventure my discre- tion so weakly.
suppose th' ambassador from the french comes back ,  tells harry that the king doth offer him
i will seek him ,  sir ,  presently ,  convey the business as i shall find means ,  and acquaint you withal .
it is so .
but ,  soft !
my own flesh and blood to rebel!
the son of clarence have i pent up close ,  his daughter meanly have i matched in marriage ,  the sons of edward sleep in abraham’s bosom ,  and anne my wife hath bid this world goodnight .
were such things here as we do speak about?
come, shall we go?
foul words is but foul wind ,  and foul wind is but foul breath ,  and foul breath is noisome .
we are sent to give thee from our royal master thanks ,  only to herald thee into his sight ,  not pay thee .
well ,  i will undertake it .
all that is spoke is marred .
good lord ,  how bright and goodly shines the moon !
and i must rid all the sea of pirates ,  then ,  to send measures of wheat to rome .
that's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
here, villain, drawn and ready.
we'll leave you ,  brutus ,  and ,  friends ,  disperse yourselves ,  but all remember what you have said and show yourselves true romans .
that i was disdainful and that i had my good wit out of the hundred merry tales !
i am to blame .
i remember one said there were no sal -  lets in the lines to make the matter savoury ,  nor no mat -  ter in the phrase that might indict the author of affecta -  tion; but called it an honest method ,  as wholesome as sweet ,  and by very much more handsome than fine .
good dawning to thee ,  friend .
o, forgive me my sins!
stand aside .
whence is that knocking ?
o ,  treble woe fall ten times treble on that cursed head whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense deprived thee of !
is there no pity sitting in the clouds that sees into the bottom of my grief?
to alonso] is not ,  sir ,  my doublet as fresh as the first day [to alonso] is not ,  sir ,  my i wore it ?
farewell !
marry ,  well bethought !
where it seems best unto your royal self .
my master's a very jew .
now ,  by yon marble heaven ,  in the due reverence of a sacred vow i here engage my words .
i fear he will .
farewell, ophelia, and remember well what i have said to you.
arise and say how thou cam'st here .
let me see his eyes ,  that ,  when i note another man like him ,  i may avoid him .
come hither ,  fellow .
he looks gentler than he did .
so full of artless jealousy is guilt it spills itself in fearing to be spilt .
be that the uttermost, and fail not then.
go ,  coward as thou art .
ay ,  madam .
where the devil should he learn our language?
i know not, sir.
stand you awhile apart; confine yourself but in a patient list.
i'll have this knot knit up to - morrow morning .
good night, good night!
it is an honor that i dream not of .
can you love the gentleman ?
so is the bargain .
well then, your bond; and, let me see.
that i did love the moor to live with him ,  my downright violence and storm of fortunes may trumpet to the world .
if he be absent ,  bring his brother to me .
so indeed he did .
o error, soon conceived, thou never comest unto a happy birth, but kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
do you mark that ?
from hamlet ?
come on .
he found it then; i never gave it him.
thy mother was a piece of virtue, and she said thou wast my daughter; and thy father was duke of milan, and his only heir and princess no worse issued.
why ,  then thou canst not break her to the lute ?
so the fool follows after .
ay ,  my lord ,  i would know that .
a cup ,  closed in my true love’s hand ?
nay ,  i have done .
was i with you there for the goose ?
have with you.
is not this man jealous ?
but not with such familiar instances nor with such free and friendly conference as he hath used of old .
thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er i nursed .
alas the heavy day!
what’s the disease he means ?
she false with cassio ?
only be patient till we have appeased the multitude, beside themselves with fear, and then we will deliver you the cause why i, that did love caesar when i struck him, have thus proceeded.
fair lady ,  by your leave ,  i come by note to give and to receive .
i like not that .
say either, and i'll stay the circumstance.
i'll lay fourteen of my teeth— and yet, to my teen be it spoken, i have but four— she is not fourteen.
ha !
thus the bowl should run ,  and not unluckily against the bias .
the very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er i saw.
is banquo gone from court ?
hark ,  boy !
thy letters have transported me beyond this ignorant present, and i feel now the future in the instant.
o heavenly powers !
what's the matter?
alack ,  why thus ?
do not say so ,  lysander; say not so .
the night has been unruly .
this feather stirs .
madam !
is't possible, my lord?
get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
o villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
you are idle ,  shallow things .
what should the wars do with these jigging fools ?
you can do better yet ,  but this is meetly .
have by some surgeon ,  shylock ,  on your charge ,  to stop his wounds ,  lest he do bleed to death .
help ,  help ,  help !
say you ?
pardon, my lord.
you are too hot .
and that is claudio .
why do you weep ?
the mighty gods defend thee!
i have sent to seek him ,  and to find the body .
well.— now come, my ariel!
forth, my sword; he dies.
cassio knows you not.
did michael cassio ,  when you wooed my lady ,  know of your love ?
sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet nurse ,  tell me ,  what says my love ?
so were you .
let’s see .
come ,  go with me; under our tents i’ll play the eavesdropper to see if any mean to shrink from me .
adieu .
when the sea is.
as the ox hath his bow ,  sir ,  the horse his curb ,  and the falcon her bells ,  so man hath his desires; and as pigeons bill ,  so wedlock would be nibbling .
misshapen chaos of well - seeming forms !
he hath raised the wall ,  and houses too .
i mean ,  an we be in choler ,  we'll draw .
let us leave him .
this was a way to thrive ,  and he was blest; and thrift is blessing ,  if men steal it not .
lorenzo and salerio ,  welcome hither ,  if that the youth of my new interest here have power to bid you welcome .
i see ,  sir ,  you are liberal in offers .
why ,  'tis not possible .
let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers into your favor.
tis here!
madam ,  madam— antonio’s dead !
your part in her you could not keep from death ,  but heaven keeps his part in eternal life .
yet mark'd i where the bolt of cupid fell.
oh ,  so light a foot will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint .
dost thou not suspect my place ?
as sure ,  my liege ,  as i do see your grace .
let floods o'erswell and fiends for food howl on !
more light and light it grows .
take note ,  take note ,  o world ,  to be direct and honest is not safe .
give me ,  ”       quoth i .
know i these men that come along with you ?
one of these three contains her heavenly picture .
no ,  'tis not so deep as a well ,  nor so wide as a church door; but 'tis enough ,  'twill serve .
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  and a courteous ,  and a kind ,  and a handsome ,  and ,  i warrant ,  a virtuous— where is your mother ?
how fares my lord?
come ,  let us sup betimes ,  that afterwards we may digest our complots in some form .
where is my lord of gloucester ?
proculeius ,  what thou hast done thy master caesar knows ,  and he hath sent for thee .
what ,  in our house ?
now is he for the numbers that petrarch flowed in.
a plague upon the tyrant that i serve!
tis thus: who tells me true ,  though in his tale lie death ,  i hear him as he flattered .
a trusty villain ,  sir ,  that very oft ,  when i am dull with care and melancholy ,  lightens my humor with his merry jests .
how dost thou and thy master agree ?
here is a place reserved ,  sir .
thou hast hit it .
said he not so ?
arms ,  arms ,  sword ,  fire ,  corruption in the place !
well then ,  no more but this: go ,  gentle catesby ,  and ,  as it were far off ,  sound thou lord hastings how he doth stand affected to our purpose and summon him tomorrow to the tower to sit about the coronation .
so hath my lord dared him to single fight .
nor what i have done by water .
approach ,  sir andrew .
love give me strength !
hearty thanks .
as great to me as late; and supportable to make the dear loss have i means much weaker than you may call to comfort you, for i have lost my daughter.
the lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard.
fie ,  there is no such man .
as wicked dew as e'er my mother brushed with raven's feather from unwholesome fen drop on you both !
hear a little further and then i’ll bring thee to the present business which now ’s upon ’s ,  without the which this story were most impertinent .
who's there?
your worship's friend and launcelot, sir.
that very hour ,  and in the selfsame inn ,  a meaner woman was deliverèd of such a burden ,  male twins ,  both alike .
our queen and all her elves come here anon .
i will bestow you where you shall have time to speak your bosom freely .
it were well the general were put in mind of it .
to visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
all for your delight we are not here.
i owe you much; and ,  like a wilful youth ,  that which i owe is lost: but if you please to shoot another arrow that self way which you did shoot the first ,  i do not doubt ,  as i will watch the aim ,  or to find both ,  or bring your latter hazard back again ,  and thankfully rest debtor for the first .
you say you are a better soldier .
time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits.
a sister i bequeath you whom no brother did ever love so dearly .
as i am an honest man, i thought you had received some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than in reputa- tion.
those that will follow cassius ,  go with him ,  and public reasons shall be renderèd of caesar’s death .
why ,  saw you anything more wonderful ?
to make me bless'd, or cursed'st among men.
never alone did the king sigh ,  but with a general groan .
oh ,  by this count i shall be much in years ere i again behold my romeo .
here is a mourning rome, a dangerous rome, no rome of safety for octavius yet; hie hence, and tell him so.
will you walk ,  sir ?
in parthia did i take thee prisoner ,  and then i swore thee ,  saving of thy life ,  that whatsoever i did bid thee do ,  thou shouldst attempt it .
scurvy knave !
i know the good king and queen have sent for you .
why ,  how should she be murdered ?
i pray you tell your brother how well i counterfeited .
i shall remember .
in the name lay a moiety of the world .
as i do live ,  my honour'd lord ,  'tis true; and we did think it writ down in our duty to let you know of it .
why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade that a will keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
whither should i fly?
what many men desire . —that many may be meant by the fool multitude ,  that choose by show ,  not learning more than the fond eye doth teach; which pries not to th' interior ,  but ,  like the martlet ,  builds in the weather on the outward wall ,  even in the force and road of casualty .
it makes me mad.
but did you ever tell him she was false ?
i will be assured i may; and that i may be assured, i will bethink me.
the heads of the maids ?
they bore him barefac'd on the bier (hey non nony ,  nony ,  hey nony) and on his grave rain'd many a tear .
infirmity ,  that decays the wise ,  doth ever make the better fool .
come ,  let us to the castle .
my lord ?
to all and him we thirst ,  and all to all .
there’s not ,  i think ,  a subject that sits in heart - grief and uneasiness under the sweet shade of your government .
do we so .
he tells me, my dear gertrude, he hath found the head and source of all your son's distemper.
i speak but brotherly of him ,  but should i anatomize him to thee as he is ,  i must blush and weep ,  and thou must look pale and wonder .
you tallow - face !
i chose her when i could not ask my father for his advice ,  nor thought i had one .
o hamlet, speak no more!
do but encave yourself ,  and mark the fleers ,  the gibes ,  and notable scorns ,  that dwell in every region of his face; for i will make him tell the tale anew ,  where ,  how ,  how oft ,  how long ago ,  and when he hath and is again to cope your wife: i say ,  but mark his gesture .
an inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest .
coward ,  why com'st thou not ?
all disconsolate ,  with pindarus his bondman ,  on this hill .
they stand ,  and would have parley .
ah ha ,  my mistresses !
we are resolved, my lord.
i would they were ,  that i might die at once ,  for now they kill me with a living death .
i took thee for thy better .
we defy augury .
if i speak true !
what handkerchief ?
would it not make one weep ?
they shall be apprehended by and by .
upon the platform ,  ’twixt eleven and twelve ,  i’ll visit you .
thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft, and wit depends on dilatory time.
and now ,  i pray you ,  sir— for still ’tis beating in my mind—your reason for raising this sea storm ?
here’s more news .
not so ,  my lord .
hymen from heaven brought her ,  yea ,  brought her hither ,  that thou mightst join her hand with his whose heart within his bosom is .
by your leave, sir.
will you be prick'd in number of our friends, or shall we on, and not depend on you?
beware the thane of fife .
and in the morning early will we both fly toward belmont .
be fickle ,  fortune ,  for then i hope thou wilt not keep him long but send him back .
good sir ,  draw near to me .
but you’ll be secret ?
and i am sick when i look not on you .
lucius ,  a bowl of wine !
why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.
a good man’s fortune may grow out at heels .
run to your houses ,  fall upon your knees ,  pray to the gods to intermit the plague that needs must light on this ingratitude .
james tyrrel ,  and your most obedient subject .
farewell .
contending with the fretful elements .
didst thou dream ,  lucius ,  that thou so criedst out ?
yet here, laertes?
hadst thou no poison mixed ,  no sharp - ground knife ,  no sudden mean of death ,  though ne'er so mean ,  but  “ banishèd ”  to kill me ? — “ banishèd ”  !
ne'er pull your hat upon your brows; give sorrow words .
no ,  not much moved .
this was a venture ,  sir ,  that jacob serv'd for; a thing not in his power to bring to pass ,  but sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven .
ay ,  ay ,  three thousand ducats .
stand not amaz'd.
all that i have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; i, the man i' the moon; this thorn-bush, my thorn-bush; and this dog, my dog.
oh ,  you and i have heard our fathers say ,  there was a brutus once that would have brooked th' eternal devil to keep his state in rome as easily as a king .
sweet now ,  silence .
but when we in our viciousness grow hard— oh ,  misery on ’t ! —the wise gods seel our eyes ,  in our own filth drop our clear judgments ,  make us adore our errors ,  laugh at ’s while we strut to our confusion .
i come not ,  friends ,  to steal away your hearts .
and unrespective boys .
for that it is not night when i do see your face ,  therefore i think i am not in the night; nor doth this wood lack worlds of company ,  for you ,  in my respect ,  are all the world .
i did nothing .
i’ll leave you .
and trust me ,  love ,  in my eye so do you .
o serpent heart, hid with a flow'ring face!
why ,  therefore fire ,  for i have caught extreme cold .
who’s born that day when i forget to send to antony shall die a beggar .
lend thy hand, and pluck my magic garment from me.—so: [lays down his cloak] [lays down his cloak] lie there, my art.—wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
dear my lord ,  make me acquainted with your cause of grief .
though this island seem to be desert—
was not that cassio parted from my wife ?
i never shall endure her .
ay . —fare you well ,  fair gentleman .
this man is pyramus, if you would know; this beauteous lady thisbe is certain.
o ,  fie !
how is ’t with you ?
so many journeys may the sun and moon make us again count o'er ere love be done!
ay ,  ay ,  three thousand ducats .
four days will quickly steep themselves in night; four nights will quickly dream away the time; and then the moon ,  like to a silver bow new - bent in heaven ,  shall behold the night of our solemnities .
i know him not .
farewell, farewell!
ay ,  smile upon her ,  do; i will gyve thee in thine own courtship .
god send you joy ,  petruchio .
i think alexander the great was born in macedon .
good .
and do it with all thy heart .
read the will !
here lies the east .
i take ’t ’tis later ,  sir .
ay ,  but their sense is shut .
by this scimitar , — that slew the sophy ,  and a persian prince ,  that won three fields of sultan solyman , — i would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look ,  outbrave the heart most daring on the earth ,  pluck the young sucking cubs from the she - bear ,  yea ,  mock the lion when he roars for prey ,  to win thee ,  lady .
love-news, in faith.
stay ,  countrymen .
draw that thy honest sword ,  which thou hast worn most useful for thy country .
it would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold .
his beard was grizzled ,  no ?
thy love !
do you know me, father?
i go .
a spirit ,  a spirit .
then she is well ,  and nothing can be ill .
how oddly he is suited!
ay ,  pilgrim ,  lips that they must use in prayer .
and ,  lips ,  o you the doors of breath ,  seal with a righteous kiss a dateless bargain to engrossing death !
how much i had to do to calm his rage !
and made your other love, demetrius, who even but now did spurn me with his foot, to call me goddess, nymph, divine, and rare, precious, celestial?
this was but as a fly by an eagle .
her name is margery ,  indeed .
comes there any more of it ?
how now ,  malvolio ?
madam, not now.
by any other house or person ?
they stumble that run fast .
long live the king!
tis a knavish piece of work; but what o' that?
no matter .
how otherwise ? — will you be ruled by me ?
ho ,  let the door be locked .
where shall we go ?
whither goest thou ?
i will stop your mouth .
good friend ,  i prithee ,  take him in thy arms .
sans fable ,  she herself reviled you there .
why, friends, you go to do you know not what.
these english woes will make me smile in france .
nor i ,  my lord .
gentle mercutio ,  put thy rapier up .
go .
mad for thy love ?
make thee a fortune from me .
a visor for a visor !
he does well to commend it himself .
to baptista minola .
how cam'st thou hither ,  tell me ,  and wherefore ?
out upon you !
what says polonius ?
why ,  i am sure ,  if he forfeit thou wilt not take his flesh .
injurious hermia !
must i observe you ?
it is the quality o'th’ climate.
o ,  i die ,  horatio .
in which regard ,
thou art a cobbler ,  art thou ?
and i .
begin ,  murderer .
why ,  what’s a moveable ?
your loves, as mine to you.
and what's he then that says i play the villain ?
methinks your maw ,  like mine ,  should be your clock ,  and strike you home without a messenger .
god speak this  “ amen ”  !
angels and ministers of grace defend us!
i durst ,  my lord ,  to wager she is honest ,  lay down my soul at stake .
either there is a civil strife in heaven, or else the world too saucy with the gods incenses them to send destruction.
he did me kindness ,  sir ,  drew on my side ,  but in conclusion put strange speech upon me .
tis exactly valued ,  not petty things admitted .
pardon the frankness of my mirth if i answer you for that .
alas ,  good cassio !
do you not hear me speak?
his folly ,  helena ,  is no fault of mine .
when he is drunk asleep; or in his rage; or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed; at game ,  a - swearing ,  or about some act that has no relish of salvation in't then trip him ,  that his heels may kick at heaven ,  and that his soul may be as damn'd and black as hell ,  whereto it goes .
though all the world could see ,  none could be so abused in sight as he .
when this advice is free i give and honest ,  probal to thinking and indeed the course to win the moor again ?
for so thou art .
the handkerchief!
zounds ,  sir ,  you are one of those that will not serve god ,  if the devil bid you .
this is nothing ,  fool .
this ,  decius brutus .
thy face is mine, and thou hast sland'red it.
let us sit and mock the good housewife fortune from her wheel ,  that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally .
look whether he have not crown'd dead cassius!
that cannot be; since i am still possess'd of those effects for which i did the murder— my crown ,  mine own ambition ,  and my queen .
i am called .
this is the woman ,  but not this the man .
but macbeth is .
now, cinna; now, metellus; what, trebonius, i have an hour's talk in store for you; remember that you call on me today; be near me, that i may remember you.
so will you say when you have seen the sequel .
hold, tybalt!
how oft tonight have my old feet stumbled at graves ! —who’s there ?
who governs here ?
what did you enact ?
never was seen so black a day as this .
thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea; neither have i money ,  nor commodity to raise a present sum: therefore go forth ,  try what my credit can in venice do; that shall be rack'd ,  even to the uttermost ,  to furnish thee to belmont ,  to fair portia .
i will assume desert:—give me a key for this ,  and instantly unlock my fortunes here .
come ,  go .
a norman.
to fetch her fan ,  her gloves ,  her mask ,  nor nothing ?
and when he saw my best alarumed spirits ,  bold in the quarrel’s right ,  roused to the encounter ,  or whether ghasted by the noise i made ,  full suddenly he fled .
i have nothing with this answer ,  hamlet .
but no metal can— no ,  not the hangman’s axe—bear half the keenness of thy sharp envy .
what's that ,  my lord ?
didst thou see any thing ?
you would be satisfied ?
tedious and brief !
out ,  you baggage !
what are they, i beseech your ladyship?
and i must to lorenzo and the rest; but we will visit you at supper - time .
farewell ,  for i must leave you .
i dare damnation.
it will be short .
but i hope you have no intent to turn husband ,  have you ?
dismiss me ?
mother, for love of grace, lay not that flattering unction to your soul that not your trespass but my madness speaks.
write loyal cantons of contemned love and sing them loud even in the dead of night .
i will seek some way to leave him .
i’ll about and drive away the vulgar from the streets .
thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it' 'tis thine.
evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
this is venice; my house is not a grange.
the minute of their plot is almost come . —well done .
what might be toward ,  that this sweaty haste doth make the night joint laborer with the day ?
one of my fellows had the speed of him ,  who ,  almost dead for breath ,  had scarcely more than would make up his message .
an i might live to see thee married once ,  i have my wish .
but my uncle - father and aunt -  mother are deceived .
brutus is wise ,  and were he not in health ,  he would embrace the means to come by it .
good my liege— peace ,  kent .
what is this same ?
but what ,  is catesby gone ?
strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out of men’s bodies ?
speak once again .
what ,  girl ,  though gray do something mingle with our younger brown ,  yet ha’ we a brain that nourishes our nerves and can get goal for goal of youth .
are you there ,  wife ?
but yet ,  alas ,  stood i within his grace ,  i would prefer him to a better place .
pyramus draws near the wall; silence .
fare thee well at once .
she cannot endure to hear tell of a husband .
faith ,  half asleep .
he is the brooch indeed and gem of all the nation .
he’s of the color of the nutmeg .
either there is a civil strife in heaven ,  or else the world too saucy with the gods incenses them to send destruction .
you have seen cruel proof of this man’s strength .
o coward conscience ,  how dost thou afflict me !
ay, but i fear you speak upon the rack, where men enforced do speak anything.
i tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight .
shall i hear more ,  or shall i speak at this ?
not a jot ,  not a jot .
i durst not?
o thou invisible spirit of wine ,  if thou hast no name to be known by ,  let us call thee devil !
without his roe ,  like a dried herring .
he forbids it ,  being free from vainness and self - glorious pride ,  giving full trophy ,  signal ,  and ostent quite from himself ,  to god .
say, voltimand, what from our brother norway?
man delights not me—no, nor woman nei- ther, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
good ,  yet remember whom thou hast aboard .
letters, my lord, from hamlet.
now will i question cassio of bianca ,  a housewife that by selling her desires buys herself bread and clothes .
at thy request, monster, i will do reason, any reason.
nor no one here ,  for curses never pass the lips of those that breathe them in the air .
therefore ,  out of my love to you ,  i came hither to acquaint you withal ,  that either you might stay him from his intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall run into ,  in that it is a thing of his own search and altogether against my will .
i’ll be sworn ,  if thou be launcelot ,  thou art mine own flesh and blood .
after my death ,  the one half of my lands ,  and ,  in possession ,  twenty thousand crowns .
antony ,  leave thy lascivious wassails .
you must say ‘paragon.’ a paramour is—god bless us!—a thing of naught.
they hold up adam's profession.
ay ,  my good lord .
you grow exceeding strange: must it be so ?
by this scimitar that slew the sophy and a persian prince that won three fields of sultan solyman ,  i would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look ,  outbrave the heart most daring on the earth ,  pluck the young sucking cubs from the she - bear ,  yea ,  mock the lion when he roars for prey ,  to win the lady .
our size of sorrow ,  proportioned to our cause ,  must be as great as that which makes it .
i'll to my truckle-bed; this field-bed is too cold for me to sleep.
but you see my finger hath not the ring upon it .
i am the duke that loved your father .
hamlet comes back .
now, if this suit lay in bianca's power, how quickly should you speed!
good pilgrim ,  you do wrong your hand too much ,  which mannerly devotion shows in this; for saints have hands that pilgrims’ hands do touch ,  and palm to palm is holy palmers’ kiss .
no ,  my lord ,  i saw nothing .
long since thy husband served me in my wars ,  and i to thee engaged a prince’s word ,  when thou didst make him master of thy bed ,  to do him all the grace and good i could .
truly, i think they are.
so ,  it will make us mad .
you’ll have coursers for cousins and gennets for germans .
but it is no matter.
i prithee ,  peace .
where is duncan’s body ?
knock knock knock, knock!
it doth so ,  holy sir; and there's my master ,  one that you love .
good night, honest iago.
there ,  tyrant ,  there !
upon my honor— then came each actor on his ass—
send for him ,  good uncle .
am not i christopher sly ,  old sly’s son of burton heath ,  by birth a peddler ,  by education a cardmaker ,  by transmutation a bearherd ,  and now by present profession a tinker ?
prithee no more !
and yet thou wilt tutor me from quarreling !
good e'en ,  brother .
let me go with him .
i am not bid for love; they flatter me: but yet i'll go in hate ,  to feed upon the prodigal christian . —jessica ,  my girl ,  look to my house . —i am right loath to go; there is some ill a - brewing towards my rest ,  for i did dream of money - bags to - night .
the clock hath stricken three .
i go .
i'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
thy husband knew it all.
i thought all for the best .
i did not think to draw my sword ’gainst pompey ,  for he hath laid strange courtesies and great of late upon me .
upon my sword .
i pray thee ,  tell me then that he is well .
pray you ,  hasten your generals after .
there lies your way .
not in the legions of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd in evils to top macbeth .
o’er my spirit thy full supremacy thou knew’st ,  and that thy beck might from the bidding of the gods command me .
how 'strangely'?
when these are gone, the woman will be out.
wilt thou provoke me ?
you have obtain'd it.
and let him ply his music .
wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
there’s a time for all things .
here thought they to have done some wanton charm upon this man and miad ,  whose vows are that no bed - right shall be paid till hymen's torch be lighted—but in vain .
no, in despite of sense and secrecy, unpeg the basket on the house's top, let the birds fly, and like the famous ape, to try conclusions, in the basket creep and break your own neck down.
true ,  sir .
who calls ?
marry ,  god forbid !
why ,  then ,  tomorrow night ,  or tuesday morn .
yet let me weep for such a feeling loss .
now they believe it and withal whet me to be revenged on rivers ,  dorset ,  grey; but then i sigh and ,  with a piece of scripture ,  tell them that god bids us do good for evil; and thus i clothe my naked villainy with odd old ends stolen out of holy writ ,  and seem a saint when most i play the devil .
and can you by no drift of conference get from him why he puts on this confusion ,  grating so harshly all his days of quiet with turbulent and dangerous lunacy ?
thou look’st cheerly ,  and i’ll be with thee quickly .
a friend should bear his friend’s infirmities ,  but brutus makes mine greater than they are .
then so much have i heard .
what is my offense ?
good gentle one ,  give me modest assurance if you be the lady of the house ,  that i may proceed in my speech .
came he not home to - night ?
here is more news.
i shall not look upon his like again .
quarrel ,  sir ?
were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold?
shall i speak ill of him that is my husband?
they are all forth; well, i will walk myself to county paris, to prepare him up against to-morrow.
i did say so when first i raised the tempest .
twas the boy that stole your meat ,  and you’ll beat the post .
what wert thou if the king of naples heard thee?
by the mass ,  'tis morning; pleasure and action make the hours seem short .
go ,  girl .
why of thy thought, iago?
if i see anything tonight why i should not marry her ,  tomorrow in the congregation ,  where i should wed ,  there will i shame her .
i come not, friends, to steal away your hearts.
i’ll answer that .
white - livered runagate ,  what doth he there ?
get thee gone .
good ,  good .
the exhalations whizzing in the air give so much light that i may read by them.
why ,  so i did ,  but looked for no reply .
will you go hunt ,  my lord ?
there i have another bad match ! —a bankrupt ,  a prodigal who dare scarce show his head on the rialto ,  a beggar that was used to come so smug upon the mart .
there is siward's son and many unrough youths ,  that even now protest their first of manhood .
you come to me and you say ,   “ shylock ,  we would have moneys .  ”  you say so ! — you ,  that did void your rheum upon my beard and foot me as you spurn a stranger cur over your threshold !
the contents ,  as in part i understand them ,  are to blame .
i have some rights of memory in this kingdom ,  which now ,  to claim my vantage doth invite me .
where is the number of our english dead ?
so many guests invite as here are writ .
out, cur!
nor our strong sorrow [aside to donalbain .
where souls do couch on flowers ,  we’ll hand in hand ,  and with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze .
fare thee well .
is thy name william ?
your bedchamber .
how do you now, lieutenant?
hence ,  lest that th' infection of his fortune take like hold on thee .
now is it rome indeed ,  and room enough ,  when there is in it but one only man .
good sir ,  why do you start ,  and seem to fear things that do sound so fair ?
but macbeth is .
put money enough in your purse .
they’ll have me whipped for speaking true ,  thou'lt have me whipped for lying ,  and sometimes i am whipped for holding my peace .
i will ask him for my place again ,  he shall tell me i am a drunkard .
ay ,  that he was .
good - morrow ,  friends .
it is so .
take note, take note, o world, to be direct and honest is not safe.
most welcome home !
well ,  while i live ,  i'll fear no other thing so sore ,  as keeping safe nerissa's ring .
it is not seen enough; you should wear it in your cap .
who keeps her company ?
is it come to this?
i see ,  lady ,  the gentleman is not in your books .
hang out our banners on the outward walls .
i did enact julius caesar; i was killed i' the capitol; brutus killed me.
a devil ,  a born devil ,  on whose nature nurture can never stick; on whom my pains ,  humanely taken ,  all ,  all lost ,  quite lost ,  and ,  as with age his body uglier grows ,  so his mind cankers .
in belmont is a lady richly left ,  and she is fair ,  and ,  fairer than that word ,  of wondrous virtues .
read the will !
i would she were as lying a gossip in that ,  as ever knapped ginger ,  or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a third husband .
the sweeter rest was mine .
a parlous boy !
thou hadst ,  and more ,  miranda .
thou shalt be free .
do you know ,  sirrah ,  where lieutenant cassio lies ?
hail to thee, thane of cawdor!
break we our watch up; and by my advice let us impart what we have seen tonight unto young hamlet; for, upon my life, this spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
the ladies ,  her attendants of her chamber saw her abed ,  and in the morning early they found the bed untreasured of their mistress .
why ,  stay and hear me speak .
good morrow to my sovereign king and queen ,  and ,  princely peers ,  a happy time of day .
the watchdogs bark .
if not ,  an it would please you to take leave of her ,  she is very willing to bid you farewell .
what did he when thou saw’st him ?
heaven stops the nose at it ,  and the moon winks; the bawdy wind ,  that kisses all it meets ,  is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth ,  and will not hear it .
have you not hurt your head ?
lend me your hand.
i think of as many matters as he ,  but i give heaven thanks and make no boast of them .
i dreamt my lady came and found me dead (strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think !
wake when some vile thing is near .
call ,  good mercutio .
and then came pyramus.
o flesh ,  flesh ,  how art thou fishified !
but there’s a saying very old and true:  “ if that you will france win ,  then with scotland first begin .  ”  for once the eagle england being in prey ,  to her unguarded nest the weasel scot comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs ,  playing the mouse in absence of the cat ,  to ’tame and havoc more than she can eat .
tis dangerous when the baser nature comes between the pass and fell incensèd points of mighty opposites .
tomorrow is the day .
thou bloodier villain than terms can give thee out !
of a certain knight that swore by his honor they were good pancakes ,  and swore by his honor the mustard was naught .
i will go seek him.
where is malvolio ?
speak again .
peace ,  you mumbling fool !
ay ,  mine own fortune in my misery .
he was quick mettle when he went to school.
with whom ?
may be she doth but counterfeit .
yes faith, my lord.
then shall we find tomorrow they have only stomachs to eat and none to fight .
what should we do ?
but oh ,  how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man’s eyes .
for my part ,  i do not lie in't ,  yet it is mine .
em all three all ready .
thou wast born of woman .
of my kind uncle ,  that i know will give ,  and being but a toy ,  which is no grief to give .
princes have but their titles for their glories ,  an outward honor for an inward toil ,
the will ,  the will !
i see thou know’st me not .
what promise, chuck?
am i a coward?
a thousand thousand !
but so much was our love we would not understand what was most fit, but, like the owner of a foul disease, to keep it from divulging, let it feed even on the pith of life.
when ?
this man ,  with lanthorn ,  dog ,  and bush of thorn ,  presenteth moonshine; for ,  if you will know ,  by moonshine did these lovers think no scorn to meet at ninus' tomb ,  there ,  there to woo .
prithee, peace.
good night ,  mother .
but little .
you durst not so have tempted him.
pooh!
fortune now to my heart’s hope !
be not offended .
there ,  where the torch doth burn .
when you take occasions to see leeks hereafter ,  i pray you ,  mock at 'em ,  that is all .
marry ,  he told me so himself; and he said he cared not who knew it .
he replied ,   “ thou unpossessing bastard !
hence ,  be gone ,  away !
my lord ,  he’s going to his mother’s closet .
hold!
good thou ,  save me a piece of marchpane ,  and ,  as thou loves me ,  let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell . —antony and potpan !
most gracious duke ,  to my unfolding lend your prosperous ear .
answer me like men.
and of all christian souls, i pray god.
he shall not live .
very well ,  madam .
why should their liberty than ours be more ?
and god forbid ,  my dear and faithful lord ,  that you should fashion ,  wrest ,  or bow your reading ,  or nicely charge your understanding soul with opening titles miscreate ,  whose right suits not in native colors with the truth; for god doth know how many now in health shall drop their blood in approbation
o god ,  your only jig - maker .
hear the noble antony.
well, thou shalt see, thy eyes shall be thy judge, the difference of old shylock and bassanio:— what, jessica!—thou shalt not gormandise, as thou hast done with me;—what, jessica!— and sleep, and snore, and rend apparel out;— why, jessica, i say!
to sebastian] if but one of his pockets could speak, [to sebastian] if but one of his pockets could speak, would it not say he lies?
yes, cassius, and from henceforth, when you are overearnest with your brutus, he'll think your mother chides, and leave you so.
not a dump we!
if thou hast any sound or use of voice ,  speak to me .
thus twice before ,  and jump at this dead hour ,  with martial stalk hath he gone by our watch .
at your choice ,  sir .
they are ,  my lord ,  without the palace gate .
i fear me you’ll be in till then .
no, sir, there are moe with him.
here's decius brutus, he shall tell them so.
but in them nature's copy's not eterne.
come, i will give you way for these your letters, and do't the speedier that you may direct me to him from whom you brought them.
these are the forgeries of jealousy .
all men call thee fickle.
what ,  did they never whisper ?
hark .
open the tomb .
how vilely doth this cynic rhyme!
though that the queen on special cause is here ,  her army is moved on .
her obsequies have been as far enlarged as we have warranty.
would you desire lime and hair to speak better ?
down with the montagues !
since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear; which is—no, no—which was the fairest dame that lived, that loved, that liked, that looked with cheer.
oh peace ,  prince dauphin !
away !
you shall not go .
go bid thy mistress ,  when my drink is ready ,  she strike upon the bell .
trinculo, run into no further danger: interrupt the monster one word further, and, by this hand, i'll turn my mercy out o'doors and make a stockfish of thee.
so fulvia told me .
ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling, drabbing.
go and importune her .
save you ,  gentleman .
i am alone the villain of the earth ,  and feel i am so most .
come ,  i'll dispose of thee among a sisterhood of holy nuns .
who is ’t that cried ?
confess ! —handkerchief ! —oh ,  devil ! — work on ,  my medicine ,  work !
i did hear him groan ,  ay ,  and that tongue of his that bade the romans mark him and write his speeches in their books—  “ alas ,  ”  it cried ,   “ give me some drink ,  titinius ,  ”  as a sick girl .
why ,  i pray you ?
i will do so .
o cursed spite, that ever i was born to set it right!
one doth not know how much an ill word may empoison liking .
or is he on his horse ?
sir ,  my liege ,  do not infest your mind with beating on the strangeness of this business .
who keeps her company ?
doth it ?
remember; and call thy husband hither .
sweet ,  so would i .
i cannot be a man with wishing ,  therefore i will die a woman with grieving .
woe that too late repents ! —   is it your will ?
if you will patiently dance in our round ,  and see our moonlight revels ,  go with us; if not ,  shun me ,  and i will spare your haunts .
brutus, bait not me, i'll not endure it.
macbeth doth come .
the time is come .
says the fiend; away !
what are you then determinèd to do ?
he lays it on.
now ,  signior ,  where’s the count ?
she gave it him ,  and he hath given it his whore .
and that were much he should, for he is given to sports, to wildness, and much company.
where is he ?
proceed .
i am a gentleman .
now mark him, he begins again to speak.
i have spoke thus much to mitigate the justice of thy plea ,  which if thou follow ,  this strict court of venice must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there .
vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue .
when in your motion you are hot and dry— as make your bouts more violent to that end— and that he calls for drink, i'll have prepared him a chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping, if he by chance escape your venom'd stuck, our purpose may hold there.
give me thy hand, messala.
but hush, no more.
did he live now ,
my lord?
but in them nature's copy's not eterne .
what didst not like ?
there's rue for you ,  and here's some for me .
help me into some house ,  benvolio ,  or i shall faint .
take away the lady .
o ,  once tell true; tell true ,  even for my sake !
holla !
what noise ?
please you ,  farther .
o, once tell true; tell true, even for my sake!
for shame ,  put on your gown .
i had thought t’ have held it poor; but since my lord is antony again ,  i will be cleopatra .
god ye good morrow ,  gentlemen .
it harrows me with fear and wonder .
o most pernicious woman !
ay ,  sir ,  for three months .
if e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine ,  thou and these woes were all for rosaline .
observe how antony becomes his flaw ,  and what thou think’st his very action speaks in every power that moves .
pardon me ,  i pray you .
i cannot tell .
why ,  anything ,  but to the purpose .
since no man of aught he leaves knows ,  what is ’t to leave betimes ?
i have lost my hopes.
gentlemen ,  let's look to our business .
when the wind is southerly ,  i know a hawk from a handsaw .
here comes brabantio and the valiant moor .
well, sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady.
robin starveling, the tailor.
take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him, as thus, ‘i know his father and his friends, and in part him.’ do you mark this, reynaldo?
for ,  since the mortal and intestine jars 'twixt thy seditious countrymen and us ,  it hath in solemn synods been decreed both by the syracusians and ourselves ,  to admit no traffic to our adverse towns .
i’ll be gone .
deceiving me is thisbe's cue.
what seest thou else in the dark backward and abyss of time ?
your lieutenant ,  if you list ,  he's no standard .
tis more, 'tis more!
yet ‘banished’ ?
the funeral baked meats did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables .
i’ll carry it to the pile .
i thank you ,  doctor .
what’s this ?
why is this 'impawned,' as you call it?
i shall not fear fly -  blowing .
i do not think there is any such woman .
sneck up !
but antonio is certainly undone .
then shall i bleed to death .
many hot inroads they make in italy—the borders maritime lack blood to think on ’t—and flush youth revolt .
pale or red ?
therefore, fair hermia, question your desires, know of your youth, examine well your blood, whether, if you yield not to your father's choice, you can endure the livery of a nun, for aye to be in shady cloister mew'd, to live a barren sister all your life, chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon.
dost thou squiny at me ?
i do not fear it, i have seen you both; but since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
kill !
o romeo ,  romeo !
away!
there's blood upon thy face.
and when your honors mean to solemnize the bargain of your faith ,  i do beseech you even at that time i may be married too .
sblood ,  there is something in this more than natural ,  if philosophy could find it out .
whence came you ,  sir ?
stay ,  and speak !
if we do meet again ,  we’ll smile indeed .
then follow me and give me audience ,  friends .
is't true ?
where should i lose that handkerchief, emilia?
let me yet know of you whither you are bound .
i know you could not lack ,  i am certain on ’t ,  very necessity of this thought ,  that i ,  your partner in the cause ’gainst which he fought ,  could not with graceful eyes attend those wars which fronted mine own peace .
signior antonio commends him to you.
i will, my lord; i pray you pardon me.
thou marshall'st me the way that i was going, and such an instrument i was to use.
by the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
good morrow to you both .
what ,  master ,  read you ?
i did send to you for gold to pay my legions ,  which you denied me .
give me my armor .
i shall do well .
are you a married man or a bachelor ?
but ,  in faith ,  kate ,  the elder i wax ,  the better i shall appear .
let me endure your wrath ,  if ’t be not so .
our fraughtage ,  sir ,  i have conveyed aboard ,  and i have bought the oil ,  the balsamum and aqua vitae .
i saw the duchess of milan’s gown that they praise so .
commend me to thy mistress .
hush !
stay on thy peril; i alone will go.
madam ,  in happy time ,  what day is that ?
to him ,  father .
they clepe us drunkards and with swinish phrase soil our addition .
then he offered it to him again ,  then he put it by again—but ,  to my thinking ,  he was very loath to lay his fingers off it .
thy loving father ,  hamlet .
let's follow, gertrude.
i fear thee !
will you go see the order of the course ?
i stay too long .
ay ,  and a subtle ,  as he most learnedly delivered .
o ,  woe is me ,  to have seen what i have seen ,  see what i see !
what ,  says the married woman you may go ?
pooh !
no ,  to their lives ill friends were contrary .
on ,  lusty gentlemen !
himself in person there ?
sound ,  music ! —come ,  my queen ,  take hands with me ,  and rock the ground whereon these sleepers be .
marry ,  as for clarence ,  he is well repaid; he is franked up to fatting for his pains .
fie ,  that you’ll say so !
what’s that ?
bianca’s love made me exchange my state with tranio ,  while he did bear my countenance in the town ,  and happily i have arrivèd at the last unto the wishèd haven of my bliss .
this shall make our purpose necessary and not envious, which so appearing to the common eyes, we shall be call'd purgers, not murderers.
i will frown as i pass by ,  and let them take it as they list .
i do know him by his gait .
alack ,  alack !
and from henceforth when you are over - earnest with your brutus ,  he’ll think your mother chides and leave you so .
well ,  you may fear too far .
listen ,  but speak not to't .
then your hose should be ungartered ,  your bonnet unbanded ,  your sleeve unbuttoned ,  your shoe untied ,  and everything about you demonstrating a careless desolation .
o ,  do not swear ,  my lord of buckingham !
thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd.
he shall see none to fear .
what unaccustomed cause procures her hither ?
i would give all my fame for a pot of ale ,  and safety .
ay ,  i praise god ,  and i have merited some love at his hands .
here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.
you think of him too much .
but ,  for certain ,  he cannot buckle his distempered cause within the belt of rule .
we shall be short in our provision.
come ,  sir ,  to draw toward an end with you .
how intend you ,   “ practiced ”  ?
let me play the lion too .
he calls me  “ boy ”  and chides as he had power to beat me out of egypt .
did you ?
leave it to his discretion ,  and let us listen to the moon .
i speak not to disprove what brutus spoke ,  but here i am to speak what i do know .
or who pronounced the bitter sentence of poor clarence' death before i be convict by course of law ?
how easy is it ,  then !
and be all traitors that do so?
it were good that benedick knew of it by some other ,  if she will not discover it .
what is the matter here?
and, sister, as the winds give benefit and convoy is assistant, do not sleep, but let me hear from you.
come on ,  come on .
i mean ,  the matter that you read ,  my lord .
bite him to death ,  i [to stephano] lo ,  lo ,  again !
thou didst prevent me; i had peopled else this isle with calibans.
but if i give my wife a handkerchief— what then ?
wherefore did they not that hour destroy us ?
why, that's my dainty ariel!
if hamlet give the first or second hit ,  or quit in answer of the third exchange ,  let all the battlements their ordnance fire; the king shall drink to hamlet's better breath ,  and in the cup an union shall he throw richer than that which four successive kings in denmark's crown have worn .
drinks .
those that have known the earth so full of faults.
and brief ,  good mother ,  for i am in haste .
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood !
what are you ?
he's gone .
she is of so free ,  so kind ,  so apt ,  so blessed a disposition ,  she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested .
pardon ,  sweet father .
rather make my country’s high pyramides my gibbet and hang me up in chains !
i did send to you for certain sums of gold ,  which you denied me ,  for i can raise no money by vile means .
me ,  uncle ?
go in; and tell my lady i am gone, having displeas'd my father, to laurence’ cell, to make confession and to be absolv'd.
tell him there's a post come from my master, with his horn full of good news; my master will be here ere morning.
where have you been gadding ?
indeed the top of admiration ,  worth what's dearest to the world !
now antony must leave her utterly .
ah ,  well - a - day !
o ,  good my lord ,  i would speak a word with you !
swear by her foot ,  that she may tread out the oath .
all hail ,  great master !
now, by heaven, my blood begins my safer guides to rule, and passion, having my best judgement collied, assays to lead the way.
o plague right well prevented !
cassio, my lord!
he says his name’s poor tom .
he says so .
a fine woman !
hath cassius lived to be but mirth and laughter to his brutus ,  when grief and blood ill - temper'd vexeth him ?
monday !
did ’t not wake you ?
stand, ho!
my bones would rest ,  that have but labored to attain this hour .
pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune .
upon the right hand i, keep thou the left.
the younger rises when the old doth fall .
good morrow to your worship .
are you of good or evil?
ay ,  my lord .
in thunder ,  lightning ,  or in rain ?
how many things by season seasoned are to their right praise and true perfection !
age cannot wither her ,  nor custom stale her infinite variety .
where is that viper ?
sola !
cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me !
say to the king the knowledge of the broil as thou didst leave it .
she’s a beagle ,  true - bred ,  and one that adores me .
a shall recover his wits there; or, if a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
i will ,  my lord ,  with all convenient haste .
give this ring to my true knight and bid him come to take his last farewell.
at my lodging.
yes faith ,  my lord .
humbly i thank your grace.
about your years ,  my lord .
this fellow i remember since once he played a farmer’s eldest son .
give me your hand .
we’ll not run ,  monsieur monster .
knock knock anon ,  anon !
heaven make thee free of it!
come, stand not amazed at it, but go along with me; i will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him.
ay me ,  what act ,  that roars so loud and thunders in the index ?
to know my deed, ’twere best not know myself.
an oath of mickle might ,  and fury shall abate .
i am very ill at ease ,  unfit for mine own purposes .
we are oft to blame in this— 'tis too much proved—that with devotion's visage and pious action we do sugar o'er the devil himself .
give him this and bid him keep it better than the other.
this island's mine ,  by sycorax my mother ,  which thou tak'st from me .
i think it doth .
i see the business .
and i beseech you instantly to visit my too much changed son .
a countenance more in sorrow than in anger .
but he sleeps .
another yet !
go carry them and smear the sleepy grooms with blood .
bring me a father that so loved his child ,  whose joy of her is overwhelmed like mine ,  and bid him speak of patience .
at this same ancient feast of capulet's sups the fair rosaline whom thou so lov'st; with all the admired beauties of verona.
he takes on him to understand so much ,  and therefore comes to speak with you .
my lord ,  i have .
tomorrow, as he purposes.
paddock calls .
what a sleep were this for your advancement!
but since, so jump upon this bloody question, you from the polack wars, and you from england, are here arrived, give order that these bodies high on a stage be placed to the view; and let me speak to the yet unknowing world how these things came about.
he hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not the stop .
saw who ?
but break, my heart, for i must hold my tongue!
no ,  cousin ,  i’ll to fife .
i will weary you then no longer with idle talking .
i would she were as lying a gossip in that, as ever knapped ginger, or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a third husband.
perchance till after theseus' wedding - day .
why then ,  can one desire too much of a good thing ? — come ,  sister ,  you shall be the priest and marry us . —give me your hand ,  orlando . —what do you say ,  sister ?
a very tall man !
and sometime lurk i in a gossip’s bowl in very likeness of a roasted crab ,  and when she drinks ,  against her lips i bob and on her withered dewlap pour the ale .
thou art in a parlous state ,  shepherd .
how now ?
i’ll to my book ,  for yet ere supper - time must i perform much business appertaining .
shall i entreat a word ?
now might i do it pat .
an upright judge, a learned judge!
i would have her learn ,  my fair cousin ,  how perfectly i love her ,  and that is good english .
i pray you ,  choose another subject .
what answer ,  sir ?
younger than you here in verona ,  ladies of esteem are made already mothers .
the time has been that ,  when the brains were out ,  the man would die ,  and there an end .
my wife kill'd too ?
what is she ?
speak!
stay then; i'll go alone .
bring him with triumph home unto his house !
give you good night.
what news?
you are too hot.
great happiness !
here ,  under leave of brutus and the rest— for brutus is an honorable man; so are they all ,  all honorable men— come i to speak in caesar’s funeral .
o brave new world that has such people in't !
confusion now hath made his masterpiece .
if it be not to come ,  it will be now .
o mighty caesar !
i say amen ,  gonzalo !
out ,  you green sickness ,  carrion !
their perfume lost ,  take these again; for to the noble mind rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind .
make no compare between that love a woman can bear me and that i owe olivia .
and let no man abide this deed but we the doers .
o, my daughter!
nay then ,  i’ll run .
thus rosalind of many parts by heavenly synod was devised ,  of many faces ,  eyes ,  and hearts to have the touches dearest prized .
why ,  thou silly gentleman !
i have but with a cursitory eye o'erglanced the articles .
lay her i' th' earth ,  and from her fair and unpolluted flesh may violets spring !
think, my lord?
it might have since been answered in repaying what we took from them ,  which ,  for traffic’s sake ,  most of our city did .
o ,  'tis the spite of hell ,  the fiend's archmock ,  to lip a wanton in a secure couch ,  and to suppose her chaste !
your looks are pale and wild ,  and do import some misadventure .
epicurism and lust make it more like a tavern or a brothel than a graced palace .
are you answer'd?
gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where i may find the young romeo ?
thrice he walked by their oppressed and fear - surprisèd eyes within his truncheon’s length ,  whilst they ,  distilled almost to jelly with the act of fear ,  stand dumb and speak not to him .
ah ,  ha ,  my lord ,  this prince is not an edward !
in her consists my happiness and thine .
a good persuasion; therefore ,  hear me ,  hermia .
if it be ,  sir ,  i pray you ,  eat none of it .
then will i lay the serving - creature's dagger on your pate .
what the goodyear ,  my lord ,  why are you thus out of measure sad ?
for thou hast been as one ,  in suff'ring all ,  that suffers nothing; a man that fortune's buffets and rewards hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those whose blood and judgment are so well commeddled that they are not a pipe for fortune's finger to sound what stop she please .
we wait upon your grace .
now ,  by two - headed janus ,  nature hath fram'd strange fellows in her time: some that will evermore peep through their eyes ,  and laugh ,  like parrots ,  at a bag - piper; and other of such vinegar aspect ,  that they'll not show their teeth in way of smile ,  though nestor swear the jest be laughable .
those that were your father’s enemies have steeped their galls in honey ,  and do serve you with hearts create of duty and of zeal .
he doth nothing but frown; as who should say, an you will not have me, choose; he hears merry tales, and smiles not: i fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old, being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth.
i hear the strain of strutting chanticleer cry  “ cock - a - diddle - dow .  ”  where should this music be ?
you have displaced the mirth ,  broke the good meeting ,  with most admired disorder .
fear nothing .
what ,  with a torch ?
and mine, with my heart in't, and now farewell till half an hour hence.
it shall be done .
but as we often see, against some storm, a silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, the bold winds speechless, and the orb below as hush as death—anon the dreadful thunder doth rend the region; so, after pyrrhus' pause, aroused vengeance sets him new a-work; and never did the cyclops' hammers fall on mars's armour, forged for proof eterne, with less remorse than pyrrhus' bleeding sword now falls on priam.
who’s there ?
you are the lord of duty .
ha ?
prithee ,  emilia ,  go know of cassio where he supped tonight . —
repent but you that you shall lose your friend ,  and he repents not that he pays your debt .
i have a venturous fairy that shall seek the squirrel's hoard ,  and fetch thee new nuts .
for all the rest, let lion, moonshine, wall, and lovers twain, at large discourse while here they do remain.
let me see your eyes; look in my face.
i’ll teach you how to flow .
i do not in position distinctly speak of her; though i may fear ,  her will ,  recoiling to her better judgement ,  may fall to match you with her country forms ,  and happily repent .
thou shalt not lose by it .
my father is not dead ,  for all your saying .
trouble him no more till further settling .
me, poor man, my library was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties he thinks me now incapable; confederates— so dry he was for sway—with the king of naples to give him annual tribute, do him homage, subject his coronet to his crown, and bend the dukedom, yet unbowed alas, poor milan!— to most ignoble stooping.
we are yet but young in deed.
let us therefore eat and drink .
see ,  see ,  here comes the man we went to seek .
is she not down so late ,  or up so early ?
and this report hath so exasperate the king that he prepares for some attempt of war.
is that the law ?
i pray you give me leave .
she is to enter now, and i am to spy her through the wall.
thrice hath calphurnia in her sleep cried out ,   “ help ,  ho !
nay ,  i'll go with thee ,  cheek by jowl .
has this fellow no feeling of his business ?
thy loving father, hamlet.
be advis'd, fair maid.
speak ,  is ’t out o' th' way ?
let me have surgeons .
vile earth ,  to earth resign; end motion here ,  and thou and romeo press one heavy bier !
you shall not stir out of your house today.
this is the very coinage of your brain .
why, then othello and desdemona return again to venice.
what rests ?
or like a whale .
why ,  then othello and desdemona return again to venice .
my soul doth tell me hero is belied ,  and that shall claudio know; so shall the prince and all of them that thus dishonor her .
peace, ho, for shame!
shall i redeliver you e'en so ?
what is the night ?
give me mine armor .
o, she is ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed, and he's composed of harshness.
the enemy increaseth every day .
thou speak’st with all thy wit; and yet ,  i' faith ,  with wit enough for thee .
he does .
i will talk further with you .
so art thou to revenge when thou shalt hear .
earth's increase, foison plenty, barns and garners never empty, vines and clust'ring bunches growing, plants and goodly burden bowing; spring come to you at the farthest in the very end of harvest!
very well.
tis since the nuptial of lucentio, come pentecost as quickly as it will, some five-and-twenty years, and then we mask'd.
sweet bodements, good!
drunk ?
i richard’s body have interrèd anew ,  and on it have bestowed more contrite tears than from it issued forcèd drops of blood .
i have forgot that name ,  and that name's woe .
is this a dagger which i see before me, the handle toward my hand?
let her alone .
pish!
with all my heart .
o perjured woman ,  thou dost stone my heart ,  and mak’st me call what i intend to do a murder ,  which i thought a sacrifice !
i shifted him away and laid good ’scuses upon your ecstasy ,
see ,  my women ,  against the blown rose may they stop their nose ,  that kneeled unto the buds . —admit him ,  sir .
marry ,  god forbid !
ay ,  or any show that you'll show him .
farewell .
o woeful time .
i have many enemies in orsino’s court ,  else would i very shortly see thee there .
ophelia ,  walk you here .
you must have patience, madam.
what a blunt fellow is this grown to be !
to make society the sweeter welcome ,  we will keep ourself till suppertime alone .
this naughty man shall face to face be brought to margaret ,  who i believe was packed in all this wrong ,  hired to it by your brother .
now, how dost thou look now?
it is a kind of history .
who ,  he ?
good morrow ,  lieutenant bardolph .
why, no; but sadly tell me who.
adieu ,  lest our old robes sit easier than our new !
o woeful day !
help ,  ho !
he was not born to shame.
madam ,  madam ,  madam !
thy brother by decree is banished.
behind the arras i'll convey myself, to hear the process.
i'll not serve him; he's not valiant.
they are of norway ,  sir .
is thy master coming?
so fare you well at once ,  for brutus' tongue hath almost ended his life’s history .
but virtue, as it never will be moved, though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven, so lust, though to a radiant angel link'd, will sate itself in a celestial bed and prey on garbage.
as a walled town is more worthier than a village ,  so is the forehead of a married man more honorable than the bare brow of a bachelor .
thou shalt not choose but go .
where is thy instrument ?
alack ,  sir ,  i am sand - blind ,  i know you not .
let him let the matter slip ,  and i’ll give him my horse ,  gray capilet .
his soldiership is twice the other twain .
what!
where ?
i pray you, sir, go forth, and give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.
oh ,  banish me ,  my lord ,  but kill me not !
i will not hurt him .
these are not natural events .
stand away ,  captain gower .
but, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me into a towering passion.
tush ,  i may as well say the fool’s the fool .
i say ,  there is no darkness but ignorance ,  in which thou art more puzzled than the egyptians in their fog .
hillo ,  ho ,  ho ,  boy .
now heaven walks on earth .
great dunsinane he strongly fortifies .
i am too sore enpiercèd with his shaft to soar with his light feathers ,  and so bound ,  i cannot bound a pitch above dull woe .
my husband lost his life to get the crown ,  and often up and down my sons were tossed for me to joy ,  and weep ,  their gain and loss .
strike !
canst thou remember a time before we came unto this cell ?
how do you ,  my good lady ?
a glooming peace this morning with it brings .
we learn no other but the confident tyrant keeps still in dunsinane, and will endure our setting down before't.
then, window, let day in, and let life out.
i am not to you known ,  though in your state of honor i am perfect .
in sadness ,  cousin ,  i do love a woman .
but be thou armed for some unhappy words .
need you my help ?
i have used thee ,  filth as thou art ,  with human care ,  and lodged thee in mine own cell till thou didst seek to violate the honor of my child .
away with the dotard !
sweet now ,  silence !
nurse ,  will you go with me into my closet to help me sort such needful ornaments as you think fit to furnish me to - morrow ?
and now they never meet in grove or green, by fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen, but they do square, that all their elves for fear creep into acorn cups and hide them there.
o ,  this is hire and salary ,  not revenge !
will you go hear this news ,  signior ?
look ,  he recovers .
please it your grace ,  on to the state affairs .
tis dangerous when the baser nature comes between the pass and fell incensed points of mighty opposites.
virtue ?
i said so ,  dear katherine; and i must not blush to affirm it .
o gull!
for your broken shin.
ah ,  he is young ,  and his minority is put unto the trust of richard gloucester ,  a man that loves not me nor none of you .
go, tubal, and meet me at our synagogue; go, good tubal; at our synagogue, tubal.
do you amend it, then; it lies in you.
tears seven times salt ,  burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye !
still am i called . —unhand me ,  gentlemen .
scratch my head ,  peaseblossom .
widow ?
was not that letter from fair jessica?
with demetrius.
sola, sola!
but let me conjure you by the rights of our fellowship ,  by the consonancy of our youth ,  by the obligation of our ever - preserved love ,  and by what more dear a better proposer could charge you withal ,  be even and direct with me ,  whether you were sent for or no .
i thought so then ,  i’ll kill myself for grief .
thursday let it be— a thursday ,  tell her she shall be married to this noble earl .
why ,  no .
i am very sorry that you are not well .
what mercy can you render him ,  antonio ?
receive it so .
farewell .
thou old unhappy traitor ,  briefly thyself remember .
it is a monster begot upon itself ,  born on itself .
of thy misprision must perforce ensue some true love turn'd, and not a false turn'd true.
i' th' air or th' earth ?
o all you host of heaven!
here is more news .
poor soul, thy face is much abus'd with tears.
be patient ,  for the prize i’ll bring thee to shall hoodwink this mischance .
it did ,  it did .
he shall do this; or else i do recant the pardon that i late pronounced here .
the what ?
for even now i put myself to thy direction and unspeak mine own detraction; here abjure the taints and blames i laid upon myself, for strangers to my nature.
what lights come yond?
have i not heard the sea ,  puffed up with winds ,  rage like an angry boar chafèd with sweat ?
this world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange that even our loves should with our fortunes change; for 'tis a question left us yet to prove, whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
i did nothing.
take no offense that i would not offend you .
return ,  good catesby ,  to the gracious duke .
no ,  marry .
ay ,  sir ,  all this is so .
but who was this ?
why do you make such faces?
the general cause ?
this likes me well .
ye say honestly .
o good iago ,  what shall i do to win my lord again ?
then i'll look up; my fault is past.
is there not charms by which the property of youth and maidhood may be abused ?
and did you see the handkerchief ?
now would i give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground—long heath, brown furze, anything.
what country ,  friends ,  is this ?
i pray ,  sir ,  can you read ?
see, whether their basest metal be not moved; they vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
hover through the fog and filthy air.
go ,  get some water and wash this filthy witness from your hand .
answer me directly .
if there were no more women but fulvia ,  then had you indeed a cut ,  and the case to be lamented .
for he is ,  sure ,  i' th' island .
is this the fine of his fines ,  and the recovery of his recoveries ,  to have his fine pate full of fine dirt ?
yes, here i tender it for him in the court; yea, twice the sum: if that will not suffice, i will be bound to pay it ten times o'er, on forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart: if this will not suffice, it must appear that malice bears down truth.
i'll go and chat with paris .
any man that can write may answer a letter .
by whose direction found'st thou out this place ?
i will weep for nothing ,  like diana in the fountain ,  and i will do that when you are disposed to be merry .
except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds, or memorize another golgotha, i cannot tell— but i am faint; my gashes cry for help.
thanks, i' faith; for silence is only commendable in a neat's tongue dried, and a maid not vendible.
but i pray, can you read any thing you see?
what players are they ?
sir ,  his definement suffers no perdition in you ,  though i know to divide him inventorially would dizzy th' arithmetic of memory ,  and yet but yaw neither ,  in respect of his quick sail .
do this expediently ,  and turn him going .
think you my uncle did dissemble ,  grandam ?
ay ,  celia ,  we stayed her for your sake .
brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs, and when you do them— cassius, be content, speak your griefs softly, i do know you well.
yet must not we put the strong law on him .
tis to be doubted ,  madam .
o setebos, these be brave spirits indeed!
how now ,  horatio ?
this i’ll report ,  dear lady .
disobedient wretch !
i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry .
how now ,  cassio !
i do never use it .
do not lie so near .
no more with me .
he’ll make a proper man .
help !
i pray you ,  sirs ,  lie in my tent and sleep; it may be i shall raise you by and by on business to my brother cassius .
i dreamt tonight that i did feast with caesar ,  and things unlucky charge my fantasy .
o ,  my good lord ,  yonder's foul murders done !
o ill-starr'd wench!
pray you ,  lead on .
would he not be a comfort to our travel ?
o rome, i make thee promise, if the redress will follow, thou receivest thy full petition at the hand of brutus!
truly ,  young gentlemen ,  though there was no great matter in the ditty ,  yet the note was very untunable .
was the crown offered him thrice?
that shall you know hereafter .
i shall break the cause of our expedience to the queen and get her leave to part .
then you do not love me ?
first go with me to church, and call me wife, and then away to venice to your friend; for never shall you lie by portia's side with an unquiet soul.
sleep rock thy brain ,  and never come mischance between us twain !
i am a tainted wether of the flock ,  meetest for death .
better it were they all came by his father ,  or by the father there were none at all ,  for emulation who shall now be nearest will touch us all too near if god prevent not .
what shall we do ,  enobarbus ?
do you quarrel ,  sir ?
canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile ,  and touch thy instrument a strain or two ?
thus ornament is but the guilèd shore to a most dangerous sea ,  the beauteous scarf veiling an indian beauty—in a word ,  the seeming truth which cunning times put on to entrap the wisest .
i know not what i shall think of that: but i am launcelot, the jew's man; and i am sure margery, your wife, is my mother.
when all’s done ,  you look but on a stool .
wondrous heavy .
my niece is already in the belief that he’s mad .
well . — now come ,  my ariel !
lady !
tarry a little .
and what's in prayer but this twofold force ,  to be forestalled ere we come to fall ,  or pardon'd being down ?
advantage is a better soldier than rashness .
caesar should be a beast without a heart if he should stay at home today for fear.
my worthy cawdor!
where the devil should this romeo be ?
if she do ,  he’ll smile and take ’t for a great favor .
the very conveyances of his lands will scarcely lie in this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more ,  ha ?
where's the thane of cawdor ?
you are a fishmonger .
think’st thou ,  hortensio ,  though her father be very rich ,  any man is so very a fool to be married to hell ?
nay ,  but this dotage of our general’s o’erflows the measure .
o, come in, equivocator.
the former hero !
i have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense ,  and he grows angry .
the jewels you have had from me to deliver desdemona would half have corrupted a votaress .
thou wouldst be great; art not without ambition, but without the illness should attend it.
he cannot like her long .
i have done my duty .
where is that viper?
never to speak of this that you have heard: swear by my sword .
he weeps for what is done .
he is a good one ,  and his worthiness does challenge much respect . —come ,  desdemona ,  once more ,  well met at cyprus .
what if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord, or to the dreadful summit of the cliff that beetles o'er his base into the sea, and there assume some other horrible form, which might deprive your sovereignty of reason and draw you into madness?
for your intent in going back to school in wittenberg, it is most retrograde to our desire; and we beseech you, bend you to remain here in the cheer and comfort of our eye, our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
that which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet .
she’s framed as fruitful as the free elements .
assure you, my good liege, i hold my duty as i hold my soul, both to my god and to my gracious king.
but i pray you ergo, old man, ergo, i beseech you, talk you of young master launcelot.
i have done nothing but in care of thee ,  of thee ,  my dear one ,  thee ,  my daughter ,  who art ignorant of what thou art ,  naught knowing of whence i am ,  nor that i am more better than prospero ,  master of a full poor cell ,  and thy no greater father .
away with us to athens .
think what thou wilt ,  i am thy lover's grace; and like limander am i trusty still .
who is this they follow?
had he not resembled my father as he slept, i had done't.
for this drivelling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
myself have letters of the selfsame tenure .
how now ,  my sweet bianca !
give me your arm .
when they next wake, all this derision shall seem a dream and fruitless vision; and back to athens shall the lovers wend, with league whose date till death shall never end.
i must love you and sue to know you better .
tis here !
ay ,  mine own fortune in my misery .
i humbly beseech you ,  proceed to the affairs of state .
i take it much unkindly that thou, iago, who hast had my purse as if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
i'll touch my point with this contagion ,  that ,  if i gall him slightly ,  it may be death .
thou strik’st not me ,  ’tis caesar thou defeat’st .
he did command me to call timely on him .
clarence still breathes; edward still lives and reigns .
dry up your tears and stick your rosemary on this fair corse, and, as the custom is, in all her best array bear her to church; for though fond nature bids us all lament, yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
go shake your ears !
i do attend here on the general; and think it no addition ,  nor my wish ,  to have him see me woman'd .
we do ,  my lord .
i do suffer love indeed ,  for i love thee against my will .
brother ,  i'll go and bring it thee .
your grace attended to their sugared words but looked not on the poison of their hearts .
therefore be o' good cheer ,  for truly i think you are damned .
but as ’tis ,  we cannot miss him: he does make our fire ,  fetch in our wood ,  and serves in offices that profit us .
my lord, for aught i know.
i tell you ,  ’twill sound harshly in her ears .
if thy revengeful heart cannot forgive ,  lo ,  here i lend thee this sharp - pointed sword ,  which if thou please to hide in this true breast and let the soul forth that adoreth thee ,  i lay it naked to the deadly stroke and humbly beg the death upon my knee .
go to ,  you’re a dry fool .
so much for this ,  sir; now shall you see the other .
vows ,  to the blackest devil !
pardon ,  my lord .
nay, pray you, mark.
o slave!
let it work; for 'tis the sport to have the enginer hoist with his own petar; and ' shall go hard but i will delve one yard below their mines and blow them at the moon .
but we will draw the curtain and show you the picture .
lucius !
i am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor.
she’s like a liar gone to burning hell .
our fears in banquo stick deep ,  and in his royalty of nature reigns that which would be feared .
shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits ,  and give their fasting horses provender ,  and after fight with them ?
o ,  ’twas the foulest deed to slay that babe ,  and the most merciless that e'er was heard of !
here ,  sweet lord ,  at your service .
god keep me so . —our heralds go with him .
some say the lark makes sweet division; this doth not so, for she divideth us.
ay, good my lord.
now ,  fair hippolyta ,  our nuptial hour draws on apace; four happy days bring in another moon; but ,  o ,  methinks ,  how slow this old moon wanes !
what misadventure is so early up ,  that calls our person from our morning rest ?
not yet quite dead ?
gertrude ,  do not drink .
farewell ,  my dearest sister ,  fare thee well .
no, i am promised forth.
wherefore ?
keep promise ,  love .
yea ,  yea ,  my lord .
or did the letters work upon his blood, and new create this fault?
in his tail .
if that thou be’st a devil ,  i cannot kill thee .
where hast thou sent the king ?
is he not a most profane and liberal counselor ?
aside .
come hither, gentlemen, and lay your hands again upon my sword.
therefore the sadness is without limit .
cut my lace ,  charmian ,  come !
we took this mattock and this spade from him as he was coming from this churchyard’s side .
the excuse that thou dost make in this delay is longer than the tale thou dost excuse .
had i but the means to hold a rival place with one of them ,  i have a mind presages me such thrift ,  that i should questionless be fortunate .
i do not think so.
therefore be out of hope ,  of question ,  of doubt; be certain ,  nothing truer; 'tis no jest that i do hate thee and love helena .
he hath disgraced me and hindered me half a million ,  laughed at my losses ,  mocked at my gains ,  scorned my nation ,  thwarted my bargains ,  cooled my friends ,  heated mine enemies—and what’s his reason ?
the worm that’s fled hath nature that in time will venom breed; no teeth for th' present .
ay ,  sir .
let life be short ,  else shame will be too long .
come hither ,  catesby .
murder ,  murder !
and i for no woman .
you may ,  indeed ,  say so; for 'twas that hand that gave away my heart .
and more i beg not.
but what say you to thursday ?
i know not where he lodges ,  and for me to devise a lodging ,  and say he lies here or he lies there ,  were to lie in mine own throat .
weeping] i am a fool [weeping] i am a fool to weep at what i am glad of.
you speak like a green girl ,  unsifted in such perilous circumstance .
alas the day ,  i never gave him cause !
i can read .
you shall not find ,  though you be therein curious ,  the least cause for what you seem to fear .
the wall ,  methinks ,  being sensible ,  should curse again .
it is my soul that calls upon my name .
let him approach .
i cannot love him .
look whe'e he has not turned his color and has tears in ’s eyes . —prithee ,  no more .
say that i slew them not .
either thou or i, or both, must go with him.
lo ,  where it comes again !
tis vile, unless it may be quaintly ordered, and better, in my mind, not undertook.
but to the quick o' the ulcer!
like to lysander sometime frame thy tongue ,  then stir demetrius up with bitter wrong; and sometime rail thou like demetrius; and from each other look thou lead them thus ,  till o'er their brows death - counterfeiting sleep with leaden legs and batty wings doth creep .
it is shaped ,  sir ,  like itself ,  and it is as broad as it hath breadth .
ah ,  rosencrantz !
oh ,  how i long to have some chat with her !
there he is .
but sure i fear we shall not win him to it .
mad call i it; for ,  to define true madness ,  what is't but to be nothing else but mad ?
peace, peace!
prison ,  my lord ?
shall i know your answer ?
every inordinate cup is unblest ,  and the ingredient is a devil .
every one prepare to follow this fair corse unto her grave.
give me your hand ,  and let me all your fortunes understand .
stars ,  my lord .
saw you my lord ?
come, swear it, damn thyself; lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves should fear to seize thee.
o heavy day !
o, the world hath not a sweeter creature.
the enemy comes on in gallant show .
he shift a trencher!
princes and counties !
leave all the rest to me .
bid me tear the bond .
o ,  help !
he should ,  for that ,  commit your godfathers .
alack, there lies more peril in thine eye than twenty of their swords!
thyself do grace to them ,  and bring them in .
he is most in the company of the right noble claudio .
is my master and his wife coming ,  grumio ?
hail to your lordship .
can you do it ?
master young man ,  you ,  i pray you ,  which is the way to master jew’s ?
supper is done, and we shall come too late.
mistress!
most constantly .
no ,  no !
my lord shall never rest; i'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience; his bed shall seem a school ,  his board a shrift; i'll intermingle everything he does with cassio's suit .
this i made good to you in our last conference ,  passed in probation with you ,  how you were borne in hand ,  how crossed ,  the instruments ,  who wrought with them ,  and all things else that might to half a soul and to a notion crazed say ,   “ thus did banquo .  ”       you made it known to us .
now ,  by this hand ,  i gave it to a youth , — a kind of boy; a little scrubbed boy ,  no higher than thyself ,  the judge's clerk; a prating boy ,  that begg'd it as a fee; i could not for my heart deny it him .
nor nothing in your letters writ of her ?
when i am known aright you shall not grieve lending me this acquaintance .
and let me the canakin clink, clink; [sings.
good night ,  good night !
your majesty ,  and we that have free souls ,  it touches us not .
how now ,  what news ?
under love's heavy burden do i sink.
he is a god and knows what is most right .
ancient ,  what makes he here ?
ay ,  to a niggardly host and more sparing guest .
is it sport ?
if thou dost love me ,  show me thy thought .
fare thee well, lord.
roderigo .
i oft delivered from his forfeitures many that have at times made moan to me .
i cannot tell; i think not .
how now !
what news ?
have you had quiet guard ?
from silvius ,  sir .
death of one person can be paid but once ,  and that she has discharged .
why ,  here he comes ,  swelling like a turkey - cock .
hail, caesar!
merciful heaven !
a peevish schoolboy ,  worthless of such honor ,  joined with a masker and a reveler !
great happiness !
if thou consider rightly of the matter ,  caesar has had great wrong .
i'll tear her all to pieces .
o ,  yes ,  my lord !
have you no more to say ?
i have charged thee not to haunt about my doors: in honest plainness thou hast heard me say my daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness,— being full of supper and distempering draughts,— upon malicious bravery, dost thou come to start my quiet.
it is the lark that sings so out of tune, straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
the moblèd queen ”  ?
if it be found so, some will dear abide it.
every fool can tell that .
yes ,  sir ,  i have indeed .
you must awhile be patient .
roundly replied .
perchance till after theseus' wedding-day.
it is my birthday .
if thou hast slain lysander in his sleep, being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep, and kill me too.
commend me to thy lady.
many a time and oft have you climb'd up to walls and battlements ,  to towers and windows ,  yea ,  to chimney tops ,  your infants in your arms ,  and there have sat the live - long day with patient expectation to see great pompey pass the streets of rome .
i thank you .
for in all the play there is not one word apt ,  one player fitted .
o ,  forgive me my sins !
this is the sergeant, who, like a good and hardy soldier fought ’gainst my captivity.
there is but one hope in it that can do you any good ,  and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither .
what dost thou mean?
then murder 's out of tune ,  and sweet revenge grows harsh .
wherefore weep you ?
i will indeed no longer endure it ,  nor am i yet persuaded to put up in peace what already i have foolishly suffered .
what’s your will ?
this torture should be roar'd in dismal hell .
what say’st thou ,  my fair flower de luce ?
wouldst thou have that which thou esteem’st the ornament of life ,  and live a coward in thine own esteem ,  letting  “ i dare not ”  wait upon  “ i would ,   ”  like the poor cat i' th' adage ?
why should not we be there in person ?
what say'st thou ,  noble heart ?
god keep your lordship in that gracious mind .
the french ambassador upon that instant craved audience .
thou speak'st with all thy wit, and yet, i’ faith, with wit enough for thee.
we fail ?
look thou but sweet, and i am proof against their enmity.
your honor is most welcome.
i think he will stand very strong with us.
who was so firm ,  so constant ,  that this coil would not infect his reason ?
tis time i should inform thee farther.
i am none of his skains - mates .
for his valor cannot carry his discretion ,  and the fox carries the goose .
a pox o'that !
here ,  here will i remain with worms that are thy chamber maids .
it is not so expressed ,  but what of that ?
repose you there ,  while i to this hard house— more harder than the stones whereof ’tis raised ,  which even but now ,  demanding after you ,  denied me to come in—return ,  and force their scanted courtesy .
little’ again!
this purse of ducats i received from you ,  and dromio my man did bring them me .
tis no less ,  i tell you ,  for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon .
what, ariel!
oh ,  why rebuke you him that loves you so ?
nothing ,  messala .
is not tomorrow, boy, the ides of march?
no ,  not tonight .
how now ,  horatio ?
ay ,  sweet rosalind .
i am the unhappy subject of these quarrels .
you sent me for a rope’s end as soon .
now thou and i are new in amity, and will tomorrow midnight solemnly dance in duke theseus' house triumphantly, and bless it to all fair prosperity.
i do not cross you, but i will do so.
tell me your counsels, i will not disclose em.
hang, cur, hang, you whoreson, insolent noise- maker!
muffle me ,  night ,  a while .
is clarence dead ?
is it they ?
it were a delicate stratagem to shoe a troop of horse with felt .
how fine my master is!
here comes the good macduff .
horatio says ’tis but our fantasy and will not let belief take hold of him touching this dreaded sight twice seen of us .
the captain that did bring me first on shore hath my maid’s garments .
so shall you quietly enjoy your hope and marry sweet bianca with consent .
exclaim no more against it .
nurse, where's my daughter?
pass.
i am sorry that with better heed and judgment i had not quoted him .
one woe doth tread upon another's heel, so fast they follow.
if't be so, for banquo's issue have i filed my mind, for them the gracious duncan have i murdered, put rancors in the vessel of my peace only for them, and mine eternal jewel given to the common enemy of man, to make them kings, the seed of banquo kings!
here she comes ,  cursed and sad .
you, nick bottom, are set down for pyramus.
where ?
oh ,  she knew well thy love did read by rote ,  that could not spell .
but small to greater matters must give way .
it is not very strange .
i will be flesh and blood ,  for there was never yet philosopher that could endure the toothache patiently ,  however they have writ the style of gods and made a push at chance and sufferance .
here will i rest me till the break of day.
do not say  “ banishment .  ”  hence from verona art thou banishèd .
he hath a person and a smooth dispose to be suspected; framed to make women false .
you may ,  sir .
ay ,  go your ways ,  go your ways .
romeo, i come!
tis not the first time you were overshot .
shall i redeliver you e'en so?
what is her mother ?
we have ,  sir .
what committed .
shall i be tempted of the devil thus ?
ill will never said well .
which is the villain ?
we shall find a time ,  audrey .
i arrest thee of high treason ,  by the name of richard ,  earl of cambridge .
tis true .
it is a good divine that follows his own instructions .
see me no more ,  whether he be dead or no .
fain would i dwell on form ,  fain ,  fain deny what i have spoke; but farewell complement !
iago beckons me .
but ,  room ,  fairy !
give me your hands all over, one by one.
i’ll rhyme you so eight years together ,  dinners and suppers and sleeping hours excepted .
i give it you .
all strange and terrible events are welcome ,  but comforts we despise .
lay on ,  macduff ,  and damned be him that first cries ,   “ hold ,  enough !  ”  i would the friends we miss were safe arrived .
let't alone ,  and do the murder first .
tubal ,  a wealthy hebrew of my tribe ,  will furnish me .
the mind i sway by and the heart i bear shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
it is here ,  hamlet .
you ,  constable ,  are to present the prince’s own person .
at the duke’s oak we meet .
oh ,  dispatch me !
good my mouse of virtue ,  answer me .
it looks a little paler .
mere prattle without practice is all his soldiership .
i would have you .
your daughter here the princes left for dead .
did romeo's hand shed tybalt's blood?
i have brought him a present .
if you are so fond over her iniquity ,  give her patent to offend ,  for if it touch not you it comes near nobody .
yet you will be hanged for being so long absent .
fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you!
to what end, my lord?
come ,  let’s away to prison .
all hail ,  macbeth !
i take pleasure in singing ,  sir .
therefore this project should have a back or second ,  that might hold if this did blast in proof .
some say the lark makes sweet division; this doth not so ,  for she divideth us .
why, what is tybalt?
a most courteous exposition.
let not the royal bed of denmark be a couch for luxury and damnèd incest .
behold where stands the usurper's cursed head .
but did you ever tell him she was false ?
up with my tent ! —here will i lie tonight .
now ,  mother ,  what's the matter ?
benvolio ,  who began this bloody fray ?
sea - nymphs hourly ring his knell: ding dong .
alas ,  poor rogue ,  i think indeed she loves me .
pish!
those are the raised father and his friends.
octavius ,  then take him to follow thee that did the latest service to my master .
i am sure, the duke will never grant this forfeiture to hold.
and ,  good lieutenant ,  i think you think i love you .
that's not an office for a friend ,  my lord .
i will not stay behind .
our enemies have beat us to the pit .
then must you speak of one that loved not wisely but too well; of one not easily jealous ,  but ,  being wrought ,  perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand ,  like the base indian ,  threw a pearl away richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes ,  albeit unused to the melting mood ,  drop tears as fast as the arabian trees their medicinal gum .
nay, but i bar to-night; you shall not gage me by what we do to-night.
she well instructs me .
well ,  juliet ,  i will lie with thee tonight .
o, these flaws and starts, impostors to true fear, would well become a woman's story at a winter's fire, authorized by her grandam.
here in the tent.
to sebastian] if but one of his pockets could speak ,  [to sebastian] if but one of his pockets could speak ,  would it not say he lies ?
good then, casca.
what if it come to thee again ?
so will i grow ,  so live ,  so die ,  my lord ,  ere i will yield my virgin patent up unto his lordship ,  whose unwished yoke my soul consents not to give sovereignty .
in respect that it is solitary ,  i like it very well; but in respect that it is private ,  it is a very vile life .
no more that thane of cawdor shall deceive our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death ,  and with his former title greet macbeth .
i pray thee chide not .
by sinel's death i know i am thane of glamis; but how of cawdor?
come ,  come !
he grows worse and worse .
never excuse; for when the players are all dead there need none to be blamed .
danger knows full well that caesar is more dangerous than he.
how now ,  captain macmorris ,  have you quit the mines ?
oh ,  but she’ll keep her word .
i am scarce in breath ,  my lord .
well get you gone .
how beauteous mankind is!
there is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all things .
silence !
o thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil!
let him command ,  and to obey shall be in me remorse ,  what bloody business ever .
shall we go ,  coz ?
if then they chanced to slack you ,  we could control them .
i will requite your loves.
and what make you from wittenberg, horatio?— marcellus?
give me leave . — i am a gentleman of verona ,  sir ,  that hearing of her beauty and her wit ,  her affability and bashful modesty ,  her wondrous qualities and mild behavior ,  am bold to show myself a forward guest within your house ,  to make mine eye the witness of that report which i so oft have heard .
uncle !
hold you content .
may't please your highness sit .
that were a kind of bastard hope, indeed; so, the sins of my mother should be visited upon me.
a seventh !
murder !
macbeth .
those are the raisèd father and his friends .
in brief ,  sorrow would be a rarity most beloved if all could so become it .
so you shall; and where the offence is let the great axe fall.
i have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs; for it hath been said ,  ‘as proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground . ’ and it shall be said so again ,  while stephano breathes at nostrils .
oh ,  did he so ?
i’ll not have it so .
here ,  at thy hand .
o holy friar ,  o ,  tell me ,  holy friar ,  where is my lady’s lord ?
what make you from home ?
romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing that he dares ne'er come back to challenge you; or if he do ,  it needs must be by stealth .
there ,  take it; and much thanks for my good cheer .
philomel with melody sing in our sweet lullaby.
alas, alas!
alack ,  our terrene moon is now eclipsed ,  and it portends alone the fall of antony .
here comes another troop to seek for you .
my uncle ?
i cannot tell; i make it breed as fast: but note me, signior.
perdition catch my soul ,  but i do love thee !
you lack a man’s heart .
i hear none ,  madam .
wast thou mad ,  that thus so madly thou didst answer me ?
if her breath were as terrible as her terminations ,  there were no living near her; she would infect to the north star .
doth the moon shine that night we play our play ?
alas ,  i sent you money to redeem you by dromio here ,  who came in haste for it .
more light and light—more dark and dark our woes!
the mercy that was quick in us but late by your own counsel is suppressed and killed .
make him believe thou art sir topas the curate .
my life upon ’t ,  young though thou art ,  thine eye hath stay’d upon some favor that it loves .
give me thy torch, boy.
hang him ,  foul collier !
sir ,  a whole history .
mine was not bridled .
make your vaunting true ,  and it shall please me well .
this is the sergeant ,  who ,  like a good and hardy soldier fought ’gainst my captivity .
the dearest ring in venice will i give you ,  and find it out by proclamation; only for this i pray you pardon me .
when nature hath made a fair creature ,  may she not by fortune fall into the fire ?
oh ,  he is even in my mistress' case ,  just in her case .
i see thee yet ,  in form as palpable as this which now i draw .
if i should take a displeasure against you ,  look you—  thou wert but a lost monster .
out of my sight !
two nights together had these gentlemen ,  marcellus and barnardo ,  on their watch ,  in the dead waste and middle of the night ,  been thus encountered: a figure like your father ,  armed at point exactly ,  cap - à - pie ,  appears before them and with solemn march goes slow and stately by them .
my noble father ,  i do perceive here a divided duty .
i pray you all, stand up.
at your noble pleasure .
my lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
then be thou jocund .
as from your graves rise up ,  and walk like sprites ,  to countenance this horror !
upon the corner of the moon there hangs a vap'rous drop profound .
we both have fed as well ,  and we can both endure the winter’s cold as well as he .
let us not break with him ,  for he will never follow anything that other men begin .
demetrius and egeus, go along; i must employ you in some business against our nuptial, and confer with you of something nearly that concerns yourselves.
how now ?
leave me and do the thing i bid thee do .
there’s no true drop of blood in him to be truly touched with love .
you shall not go, my lord.
o fool !
tis late .
horn mad ,  thou villain !
nay ,  that you shall not .
did i not meet thy friends ?
this gentleman will out - talk us all .
you were kneeled to an importuned otherwise by all of us, and the fair soul herself weighed between loathness and obedience at which end o'th’ beam should bow.
did you assay him to any pastime ?
pour in sow’s blood ,  that hath eaten her nine farrow; grease that’s sweaten from the murderer’s gibbet throw into the flame .
for certain she is dead ,  and by strange manner .
cool it with a baboon's blood, then the charm is firm and good.
wherefore was that cry ?
oh ,  he hath murdered his master !
the generals would have some words .
sir ,  would she give you so much of her lips as of her tongue she oft bestows on me ,  you’ll have enough .
nay ,  if our wits run the wild - goose chase ,  i am done ,  for thou hast more of the wild - goose in one of thy wits than ,  i am sure ,  i have in my whole five .
if thou dost love me show me thy thought .
a sealed bag ,  two sealed bags of ducats ,  of double ducats ,  stol'n from me by my daughter !
to this chair bind him . —villain ,  thou shalt find— by the kind gods ,  ’tis most ignobly done to pluck me by the beard .
wilt thou be lord of the whole world ?
hast thou slain him, then?
thou'rt mad to say it !
tush ,  gremio .
a very handsome man.
therefore to horse; and let us not be dainty of leave-taking, but shift away.
where is antony ?
o cassius, if you could but win the noble brutus to our party— be you content.
now i see ’tis true; for the blood - bolter'd banquo smiles upon me ,  and points at them for his .
that she was false to wedlock ?
we’ll hear the will .
they say there’s but five upon this isle .
even so ?
madman!
let them begin .
or keep it as a cistern for foul toads to knot and gender in !
if this uncouth forest yield anything savage ,  i will either be food for it or bring it for food to thee .
come, cassius' sword, and find titinius' heart.
my worthy cawdor !
tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with ,  and that your grace hath screen'd and stood between much heat and him .
oh ,  here will i set up my everlasting rest ,  and shake the yoke of inauspicious stars from this world - wearied flesh .
i am thane of cawdor.
if you be gentlemen ,  do me this right: hear me with patience .
those of his chamber ,  as it seemed ,  had done ’t .
i would my father looked but with my eyes .
i’ll look to like if looking liking move .
o lord, i could have stay'd here all the night to hear good counsel.
and so am i for no woman .
how now ,  my lord !
how comes this trick upon him ?
a most poor man made tame to fortune’s blows ,  who by the art of known and feeling sorrows am pregnant to good pity .
give me your pardon, sir.
you cannot feed capons so .
i will do't, my lord.
fret till your proud heart break .
it is my promise ,  and they expect it from me .
i am heartily glad i came hither to you .
strike, drum.
here are the beetle brows shall blush for me .
her name is margery, indeed: i'll be sworn, if thou be launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood.
romeo, that spoke him fair, bid him bethink how nice the quarrel was, and urg'd withal your high displeasure.
where is this king ?
a dire induction am i witness to ,  and will to france ,  hoping the consequence will prove as bitter ,  black ,  and tragical .
therefore farewell.
you say well.
to the selfsame tune and words .
heaven knows what she has known.
but were i brutus ,  and brutus antony ,  there were an antony would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue in every wound of caesar that should move the stones of rome to rise and mutiny .
mine and my father’s death come not upon thee ,  nor thine on me .
marry, god forbid!
very gladly .
upon what ground?
no more words .
prove that ever i lose more blood with love than i will get again with drinking ,  pick out mine eyes with a ballad - maker’s pen and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of blind cupid .
tis three o'clock ,  and ,  romans ,  yet ere night we shall try fortune in a second fight .
ay ,  better than him i am before knows me .
we must starve our sight from lovers' food till morrow deep midnight .
oh ,  the heavens !
o day!
the will of man is by his reason sway'd, and reason says you are the worthier maid.
good my friends ,  consider you are my guests .
your face, my thane, is as a book where men may read strange matters.
put up thy sword, or manage it to part these men with me.
something he left imperfect in the state which ,  since his coming forth ,  is thought of; which imports to the kingdom so much fear and danger that his personal return was most required and necessary .
a laughter.
but if you know not this my manners tell me we have your wrong rebuke .
he is slain .
nay ,  you must forget that .
i do wander everywhere  swifter than the moon’s sphere .
shall't be tonight at supper ?
what i should deny— as this i would ,  ay ,  though thou didst produce my very character—i’d turn it all to thy suggestion ,  plot ,  and damnèd practice .
then ’tis he: the rest that are within the note of expectation already are i’ the court .
if of life you keep a care, shake off slumber, and beware.
that eye my daughter lent her; ’tis most true .
though cassio did some little wrong to him ,  as men in rage strike those that wish them best ,  yet surely cassio ,  i believe ,  received from him that fled some strange indignity which patience could not pass .
where is my love?
speak to me what thou art .
what will you do with't ,  that you have been so earnest to have me filch it ?
even for that our love of old ,  i prithee ,  hold thou my sword hilts ,  whilst i run on it .
know, caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause will he be satisfied.
there was, for a while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question.
well mayst thou woo ,  and happy be thy speed .
who’s there ?
there ,  take you that ,  sir knave .
proceed ,  solinus ,  to procure my fall ,  and by the doom of death end woes and all .
then make a ring about the corse of caesar ,  and let me show you him that made the will .
she’s dead ,  she’s dead ,  she’s dead !
nay ,  then ,  thou mock'st me .
it may be these apparent prodigies, the unaccustom'd terror of this night, and the persuasion of his augurers may hold him from the capitol today.
thou speak'st with all thy wit ,  and yet ,  i’ faith ,  with wit enough for thee .
by'r lady ,  your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when i saw you last by the altitude of a chopine .
the time is very short.
we will ourselves provide .
ah, mine own lord, what have i seen tonight!
shall i be frighted when a madman stares?
we love him highly ,  and shall continue our graces towards him .
so have i heard and do in part believe it .
truly ,  i think they are .
look, and thou shalt see.
be it so!
three words ,  dear romeo ,  and good night indeed .
how dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
one sees more devils than vast hell can hold; that is the madman.
and whatsoever else shall hap tonight ,  give it an understanding ,  but no tongue .
be near me ,  that i may remember you .
most heavy day !
we'll burn the house of brutus .
so when he opens his purse to give us our reward ,  thy conscience flies out .
stay !
make peace with god ,  for you must die ,  my lord .
peace, ho!
where lies your text ?
no ,  as i shall be saved .
what warlike noise is this ?
he that knows better how to tame a shrew ,  now let him speak; ’tis charity to show .
on .
no more of that .
look to your house, your daughter, and your bags!
fare you well .
i have made strong proof of my constancy, giving myself a voluntary wound here in the thigh.
i do remember in this shepherd boy some lively touches of my daughter’s favor .
those that do teach young babes do it with gentle means and easy tasks .
o most wicked fiend !
the other half comes to the general state ,  which humbleness may drive unto a fine .
tis now the very witching time of night ,  when churchyards yawn ,  and hell itself breathes out contagion to this world .
no, alas, i found it, and i did give't my husband.
help to bear this away where my hogshead of wine is ,  or i’ll turn you out of my kingdom .
what ,  my lord ?
i had it of him: pardon me ,  bassanio: for by this ring the doctor lay with me .
tis for the dead ,  not for the quick; therefore thou liest .
my necessaries are embark'd .
nay ,  but he prated and spoke such scurvy and provoking terms against your honor that ,  with the little godliness i have ,  i did full hard forbear him .
whose house ?
god bless your grace with health and happy days .
nay, i know not.
i thank my noble lord .
not since widow dido's time.
where is the foolish knave i sent before ?
i will not come .
thou shall present me as an eunuch to him .
awake ,  awake !
knock knock knock ,  knock !
why ,  that is nothing .
they have letters for him .
exclaim no more against it.
do you love me ,  master ?
it only stands our lives upon to use our strongest hands .
good night ,  honest iago .
let it come down.
go ,  sirrah ,  take them to the buttery and give them friendly welcome every one .
indeed, it is a strange-disposed time; but men may construe things after their fashion, clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
most mighty sovereign ,  you have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful .
nor i .
this note doth tell me of ten thousand french that in the field lie slain .
o ,  do not do your cousin such a wrong !
i am your spaniel .
nothing at all; yet all that is i see.
most like.
come ,  my lord .
she dying gave it me ,  and bid me ,  when my fate would have me wive ,  to give it her .
masters, play here, i will content your pains; something that's brief; and bid “good morrow, general.” why, masters, have your instruments been in naples, that they speak i' the nose thus?
he had a fever when he was in spain ,  and when the fit was on him ,  i did mark how he did shake .
o, give me leave.
lorenzo, certain; and my love, indeed; for who love i so much?
ladies that have their toes unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you .
the moor is of a free and open nature, that thinks men honest that but seem to be so; and will as tenderly be led by the nose as asses are.
if you shall send them word you will not come, their minds may change.
it waves me forth again .
and most dear actors ,  eat no onions nor garlic ,  for we are to utter sweet breath .
will you give her o'er?
sir ,  have pity ,  i’ll be his surety .
speak ,  speak !
i have not seen him this two days .
but jealous souls will not be answer'd so; they are not ever jealous for the cause, but jealous for they are jealous.
and now my lady worm's, chapless, and knock'd about the mazard with a sexton's spade.
they smile at me that shortly shall be dead .
i’ll plague him .
i do know ,  when the blood burns ,  how prodigal the soul lends the tongue vows .
what, shall we forth?
do you find some occasion to anger cassio ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or tainting his discipline ,  or from what other course you please ,  which the time shall more favorably minister .
why ,  sir ,  he comes not .
o flesh ,  flesh ,  how art thou fishified !
with lysander?
but yet i’ll go in hate to feed upon the prodigal christian . —jessica ,  my girl ,  look to my house .
and now i have the boy ,  i will undo this hateful imperfection of her eyes .
what ,  are you hurt ,  lieutenant ?
all’s hushed as midnight yet .
thou liest ,  thou shag - ear'd villain !
master ,  is this mistress satan ?
where do you dwell?
how chances it they travel ?
by your most gracious pardon ,  i sing but after you .
what do you here alone ?
indeed she’s a most fresh and delicate creature .
o, how may i call this a lightning?
what dost thou know me for ?
but yet ,  i say ,  if imputation and strong circumstances ,  which lead directly to the door of truth ,  will give you satisfaction ,  you may have't .
what if i do obey?
o, he's a lovely gentleman!
hazard for lead ?
all that i have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; i ,  the man in the moon; this thornbush ,  my thornbush; and this dog ,  my dog .
the weakest kind of fruit drops earliest to the ground ,  and so let me .
what work is here ,  charmian ?
where are they ?
o pomfret ,  pomfret !
everything is well .
she ,  dying ,  as it must so be maintained ,  upon the instant that she was accused ,  shall be lamented ,  pitied and excused of every hearer .
it is impossible you should see this were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys, as salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross as ignorance made drunk.
why, revenge.
as he was fortunate ,  i rejoice at it .
this is as't should be .
there is the playhouse now ,  there must you sit ,  and thence to france shall we convey you safe and bring you back ,  charming the narrow seas to give you gentle pass; for ,  if we may ,  we’ll not offend one stomach with our play .
my mind was never yet more mercenary .
by my hand i swear ,  and my father’s soul ,  the work ish ill done .
i had most need of blessing ,  and  “ amen ”  stuck in my throat .
adieu, adieu, adieu!
think it no more .
there was no link to color peter’s hat ,  and walter’s dagger was not come from sheathing .
nurse ! — what should she do here ?
no ,  his mouth is stopp'd; honest iago hath ta'en order for't .
pardon me ,  julius !
be merciful, say ‘death’; for exile hath more terror in his look, much more than death.
oh yes ,  i saw sweet beauty in her face such as the daughter of agenor had ,  that made great jove to humble him to her hand when with his knees he kissed the cretan strand .
this presence knows, and you must needs have heard, how i am punish'd with sore distraction.
i would kiss before i spoke .
and what says my concealed lady to our canceled love ?
to thine own peace.
urchins shall ,  forth at vast of night that they may work ,  all exercise on thee .
caesar ,  i shall .
good master mustardseed ,  i know your patience well .
aside to prospero] sir ,  all this service [aside to prospero] sir ,  all this service have i done since i went .
would thou hadst less deserved ,  that the proportion both of thanks and payment might have been mine !
groan ?
good ,  i will expect you .
under what captain serve you ?
it is impossible .
alas ,  he is too young .
how answer you that ?
why ,  would not you ?
and stand indebted ,  over and above ,  in love and service to you evermore .
my blessing season this in thee !
what news ?
i cannot but remember such things were that were most precious to me .
in me ’tis villainy ,  in thee ’t had been good service .
and thence it is that i to your assistance do make love, masking the business from the common eye for sundry weighty reasons.
what committed ?
ay ,  madam ,  it is common .
i swear—      by nothing ,  for this is no oath .
scarcity and want shall shun you ,  ceres’ blessing so is on you .
no .
i'll go along, no such sight to be shown, but to rejoice in splendour of my own.
but thou wouldst not think how ill all's here about my heart .
how silent is this town !
why are you grown so rude ?
if thou canst nod, speak too.
what beard were i best to play it in ?
what might you think ?
well praised !
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
no disgrace shall fall you for refusing him at sea ,  being prepared for land .
hence, be gone, away!
my dismal scene i needs must act alone .
he saves my labor by his own approach .
so did i yours.
let me deal in this .
more than to us wait in your royal walks ,  your board ,  your bed !
suffolk first died ,  and york ,  all haggled over ,  comes to him where in gore he lay insteeped and takes him by the beard ,  kisses the gashes that bloodily did yawn upon his face .
how comes this trick upon him?
shylock ,  do you hear ?
the drink ,  the drink !
they say they have letters for you .
i have a soul of lead so stakes me to the ground i cannot move .
my lord, i came to see your father's funeral.
he fell down in the market - place and foamed at mouth and was speechless .
but i’ll catch thine eyes ,  though they had wings .
i think ’twas soto that your honor means .
now ,  where’s your master ?
sometime am i all wound with adders who with cloven tongues do hiss me into madness .
that must we also.
or keep it as a cistern for foul toads to knot and gender in!
she is protectress of her honor too .
good sister ,  wrong me not nor wrong yourself ,  to make a bondmaid and a slave of me .
death and damnation !
a most unhappy one.
have you delivered to her our decree?
oh ,  there has been much throwing about of brains .
have not saints lips ,  and holy palmers too ?
i have lived long enough.
refrain to-night, and that shall lend a kind of easiness to the next abstinence; the next more easy; for use almost can change the stamp of nature, and [either master] the devil, or throw him out with wondrous potency.
tonight we hold a solemn supper ,  sir ,  and i'll request your presence .
in bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
is there more toil ?
marry ,  sir ,  by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of father time himself .
come hither ,  sir .
commend me to lord william .
he hath raised the wall, and houses too.
o most dear mistress ,  the sun will set before i shall discharge what i must strive to do .
so that ,  as clear as is the summer’s sun ,  king pepin’s title and hugh capet’s claim ,  king lewis his satisfaction ,  all appear to hold in right and title of the female .
but in the beaten way of friend- ship, what make you at elsinore?
you are an ass ,  you are an ass !
he'll be hanged yet ,  though every drop of water swear against it ,  and gape at wid'st to glut him .
i will resolve you herein presently .
not having that, which, having, makes them short.
i pray thee ,  good mercutio ,  let’s retire .
mine ear is much enamored of thy note; so is mine eye enthralled to thy shape; and thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me ,  on the first view to say ,  to swear ,  i love thee .
ay ,  marry ,  is't; crowner's quest law .
let her come in .
and if i cannot ,  i’ll find those that shall .
that’s our offer .
if hercules and lichas play at dice which is the better man, the greater throw may turn by fortune from the weaker hand: so is alcides beaten by his page; and so may i, blind fortune leading me, miss that which one unworthier may attain, and die with grieving.
is it no more but this—a tardiness in nature which often leaves the history unspoke that it intends to do ? —my lord of burgundy ,  what say you to the lady ?
here is the place ,  my lord .
had i before known this young man his son ,  i should have given him tears unto entreaties ere he should thus have ventured .
what he will do with it heaven knows ,  not i .  i nothing but to please his fantasy .
since birth and heaven and earth, all three do meet in thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
can fulvia die ?
why then ,  resolve me whether you will or no .
i would try ,  if i could cry  “ hem ”  and have him .
what ,  ho ?
ay ,  my good lord .
i have known her continue in this a quarter of an hour.
will ’t please your honor taste of these conserves ?
let me find him, fortune!
do they hold the same estimation they did when i was in the city ?
notwithstanding ,  use your pleasure .
what ,  ho !
you must leave this.
i pray you ,  in your letters ,  when you shall these unlucky deeds relate ,  speak of me as i am; nothing extenuate ,  nor set down aught in malice .
no indeed ,  my lord .
still thou mistakest, or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully.
but my muse labors ,  and thus she is deliver'd .
to cabin ,  silence !
i am thus bold to put your grace in mind of what you promised me .
captain macmorris ,  i beseech you now ,  will you voutsafe me ,  look you ,  a few disputations with you as partly touching or concerning the disciplines of the war ,  the roman wars ?
how now ?
sin from my lips?
he did comply with his dug before he sucked it.
signior hortensio ,  ’twixt such friends as we few words suffice .
how?
fare you well .
i will get peter quince to write a ballad of this dream .
but passion lends them power ,  time means ,  to meet ,  tempering extremities with extreme sweet .
leave her to heaven and to those thorns that in her bosom lodge to prick and sting her .
is ’t possible ,  my lord ?
no ,  pray thee ,  let it serve for table talk .
who can be wise ,  amazed ,  temperate and furious ,  loyal and neutral ,  in a moment ?
ere i would say i would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen, i would change my humanity with a baboon.
on my knees i beg that you’ll vouchsafe me raiment ,  bed ,  and food .  ”  good sir ,  no more .
bow ,  stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel ,  be soft as sinews of the new - born babe !
tis some mischance; the cry is very direful .
serious vanity!
no ?
yet i’ll not shed her blood ,  nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow and smooth as monumental alabaster .
i charge thee ,  speak !
great dunsinane he strongly fortifies.
read it .
nay, stay and hear me speak.
it might, my lord.
how i dote on thee !
whither is he going ?
no harm.
go in with me ,  and i will tell you my drift .
lo ,  yonder ,  and titinius mourning it .
is he of god’s making ?
to ariel] go ,  charge my goblins that they grind their [to ariel] go ,  charge my goblins that they grind their joints with dry convulsions ,  shorten up their sinews ,  with aged cramps ,  and more pinch - spotted make them than pard or cat o'mountain .
to be a well - favored man is the gift of fortune ,  but to write and read comes by nature .
good morrow, caesar.
now do i see ’tis true .
where is my page ? —go ,  villain ,  fetch a surgeon .
i embrace it freely ,  and will this brother's wager frankly play . — give us the foils .
an you love me ,  let’s do ’t .
consent to pay thee that i never had ? — arrest me ,  foolish fellow ,  if thou dar’st .
this lion is a very fox ,  for his valor .
i do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity i find in hardness; and do undertake these present wars against the ottomites .
for me, three thousand ducats.
all the charms of sycorax ,  toads ,  beetles ,  bats ,  light on you !
i beseech you ,  sir ,  go .
farewell ,  thou woeful welcomer of glory .
would he were here !
why ,  i pray you ?
my good friends ,  i'll leave you till night .
look where he comes .
the duke himself ,  or any of my brothers of the state ,  cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own; for if such actions may have passage free ,  bond - slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be .
the king is not bound to answer the particular endings of his soldiers ,  the father of his son ,  nor the master of his servant ,  for they purpose not their death ,  when they purpose their services .
and i will sing it in the latter end of a play before the duke .
to the health of our general!
shall they see us ?
should i not say ,   “ hath a dog money ?
are your doors locked ?
by our beards (if we had them) ,  thou art .
till birnam wood remove to dunsinane i cannot taint with fear.
down with the topmast !
oh ,  my pardon !
to alonso] sir,— [to alonso] sir,— [to antonio] one: tell.
sir ,  he’s rash and very sudden in choler ,  and haply may strike at you .
we still have known thee for a holy man .
being unprepared ,  our will became the servant to defect ,  which else should free have wrought .
is the chair empty ?
and let me the canakin clink ,  clink; [sings .
what i am and what i would are as secret as maidenhead .
what ,  you egg !
if ever thou wilt thrive ,  bury my body .
well ,  tell me now what lady is the same to whom you swore a secret pilgrimage ,  that you today promised to tell me of ?
god be wi' you; take mine office .
they say he has been fencer to the sophy .
that he hath a neighbourly charity in him; for he borrowed a box of the ear of the englishman, and swore he would pay him again when he was able: i think the frenchman became his surety, and sealed under for another.
good night .
go and importune her .
if all the wine in my bottle will recover him, i will help his ague.
post back with speed ,  and tell him what hath chanced .
come, desdemona, once more well met at cyprus.
every hour he flashes into one gross crime or other that sets us all at odds .
in brief ,  for so the season bids us be ,  prepare thy battle early in the morning ,  and put thy fortune to the arbitrament of bloody strokes and mortal - staring war .
victory sits on our helms .
but wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
what ,  lucius !
in action how like an angel !
there is no more to say ?
i will not choose what many men desire ,  because i will not jump with common spirits ,  and rank me with the barbarous multitudes .
that's certain ,  if the devil may be her judge .
haply i see a friend will save my life and pay the sum that may deliver me .
on tuesday last a falcon towering in her pride of place was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd .
how sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank !
his taints and honors waged equal with him .
my sword ,  i say !
a maiden never bold ,  of spirit so still and quiet that her motion blushed at herself .
caesar ,  i shall .
to alonso] it is foul weather in us all, good sir, [to alonso] it is foul weather in us all, good sir, when you are cloudy.
ready.
o, then, by day where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough to mask thy monstrous visage?
not this ,  but troubles of the marriage bed .
why ,  what else ?
wherefore weep you ?
you are welcome .
let me see the caper .
are you answer'd ?
then i ,  and you ,  and all of us fell down ,  whilst bloody treason flourished over us .
thou ,  it seems ,  that calls for company to countenance her .
the cords that romeo bid thee fetch ?
i have seen the day that with this little arm and this good sword i have made my way through more impediments than twenty times your stop .
when biondello comes ,  he waits on thee ,  but i will charm him first to keep his tongue .
go fetch fire .
my noble lord— what dost thou say ,  iago ?
and therefore ,  good grumio ,  the news .
one fairer than my love ?
indeed they say the senators tomorrow mean to establish caesar as a king, and he shall wear his crown by sea and land, in every place save here in italy.
what may you be?
i’ll read the writing .
madam ,  with much ado .
the star is fall’n .
we will.
i do desire it with all my heart ,  and i hope it is no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world .
thou art a villain.
you ,  roderigo !
truly ,  a peck of provender; i could munch your good dry oats .
but in my conscience ,  sir ,  i do not care for you .
we are very sorry for't .
be pleased to tell us— for this is from the present—how you take the offers we have sent you .
why ,  there ,  there ,  there ,  there !
my niece shall take note of it ,  and assure thyself ,  there is no love - broker in the world can more prevail in man’s commendation with woman than report of valor .
i' faith ,  sir ,  you shall never need to fear .
no hope that way is another way so high a hope that even ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond, but doubt discovery there.
brutus and caesar—what should be in that  “ caesar ”  ?
is ’t possible ?
by my brotherhood, the letter was not nice, but full of charge, of dear import; and the neglecting it may do much danger.
oh ,  here’s a wit of cheveril ,  that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad !
knock ,  knock ,  knock !
the deep of night is crept upon our talk ,  and nature must obey necessity ,  which we will niggard with a little rest .
my lord ?
heaven ,  and thy thoughts ,  are witness that thou art .
his forward voice now is to speak well of his friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract.
bate, i beseech you, widow dido.
well ,  i am glad that all things sort so well .
what ,  wouldst thou have me go and beg my food ,  or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce a thievish living on the common road ?
clubs cannot part them .
hath she made her affection known to benedick ?
high and mighty ,  you shall know i am set naked on your kingdom .
get thee gone and hire those horses .
thou liest ,  abhorred tyrant; with my sword i'll prove the lie thou speak'st .
faith ,  here it is .
beshrew your heart for sending me about to catch my death with jaunting up and down!
would thou hadst less deserved, that the proportion both of thanks and payment might have been mine!
neither to you nor any one ,  having no witness to confirm my speech .
go to ,  carry this .
as i stood here below ,  methought his eyes were two full moons .
i do not fear it ,  i have seen you both; but since he is better'd ,  we have therefore odds .
who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  and well said too—for who shall go about to cozen fortune and be honorable without the stamp of merit ?
i gave him no order .
where is lucentio ?
juliet wills it so .
how have i been behaved that he might stick the small’st opinion on my least misuse ?
give me your hand.
o my heart!
great and increasing .
take comfort: he no more shall see my face; lysander and myself will fly this place .
who of my people hold him in delay ?
i saw ’t not ,  thought it not ,  it harmed not me .
he goes before me and still dares me on .
where is she now ? —what ,  will these hands ne'er be clean ? —no more o' that ,  my lord ,  no more o' that .
wilt thou provoke me ?
confess, and love, had been the very sum of my confession: o happy torment, when my torturer doth teach me answers for deliverance!
i say, it is not lost.
what ,  did he marry me to famish me ?
she is daughter to this famous duke of milan ,  of whom so often i have heard renown ,  but never saw before; of whom i have received a second life; and second father this lady makes him to me .
fourscore ducats at a sitting !
what dost thou think ?
but you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity .
he hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave by laboursome petition, and at last upon his will i seal'd my hard consent.
tis so ,  indeed .
i know my lady will strike him .
he’s as tall a man as any ’s in illyria .
a villain kills my father; and for that, i, his sole son, do this same villain send to heaven.
then brook abridgment ,  and your eyes advance after your thoughts ,  straight back again to france .
know me for brutus !
here the street is narrow ,  the throng that follows caesar at the heels ,  of senators ,  of praetors ,  common suitors ,  will crowd a feeble man almost to death .
for many miles about there’s scarce a bush .
nay ,  bigger !
o ,  let her live ,  and i’ll corrupt her manners ,  stain her beauty ,  slander myself as false to edward’s bed ,  throw over her the veil of infamy .
fare you well .
come ,  go in .
and make him with fair aegle break his faith ,  with ariadne and antiopa ?
lucius ,  who’s that knocking ?
and this way have you well expounded it.
the gods withhold me !
never.
hoppedance cries in tom’s belly for two white herring .
my brother killed no man; his fault was thought ,  and yet his punishment was bitter death .
some two months hence up higher toward the north he first presents his fire, and the high east stands as the capitol, directly here.
no ,  ’tis not so deep as a well nor so wide as a church - door ,  but ’tis enough ,  ’twill serve .
we shall be short in our provision .
and is it not well served into a sweet goose ?
why ,  look you ,  how you storm !
thou shalt buy this dear if ever i thy face by daylight see .
keep thee warm .
the duke my father loved his father dearly .
if the prince be too important ,  tell him there is measure in everything ,  and so dance out the answer .
you may go so far.
friends ,  come hither .
welcome ,  my friends all .
what adam dost thou mean ?
or ,  if you do not ,  make the bridal bed in that dim monument where tybalt lies .
alas, he is betray'd, and i undone!
i have had a dream, past the wit of man to say what dream it was.
i can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it .
who brought them?
he were a brave mon- ster indeed, if they were set in his tail my man-monster hath drowned his tongue in sack.
why did you laugh then ,  when i said  “ man delights not me ”  ?
speakest thou from thy heart ?
it was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman, which gives the stern'st good-night.
fairies ,  be gone ,  and be all ways away .
that we should ,  with joy ,  pleasance ,  revel ,  and applause ,  transform ourselves into beasts !
such an exploit have i in hand, ligarius, had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
get thee a wife ,  get thee a wife .
i thank you .
have patience ,  sir .
thus losers part .
give her the right you should have given her cousin ,  and so dies my revenge .
remain thou still in darkness .
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,   “ where is your mother ?  ” ’ o god's lady dear !
well ,  again !
aside to ariel] bravely ,  my diligence .
i could well forbear ’t .
by heaven ,  it is the same i gave the doctor !
gifts that god gives .
and as our vineyards ,  fallows ,  meads ,  and hedges ,  defective in their natures ,  grow to wildness ,  even so our houses and ourselves and children have lost ,  or do not learn for want of time ,  the sciences that should become our country ,  but grow like savages ,  as soldiers will
soft you now!
pyramus draws near the wall .
of a strange nature is the suit you follow ,  yet in such rule that the venetian law cannot impugn you as you do proceed . —   ay ,  so he says .
come away ,  servant ,  come .
there’s no composition in this news that gives them credit .
the dropsy drown this fool !
if we offend ,  it is with our good will .
this is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort .
scornful lysander!
can it be possible that no man saw them ?
besides ,  old gremio is heark'ning still ,  and happily we might be interrupted .
comes the king forth, i pray you?
amen .
a right good markman !
dear general ,  i never gave you cause .
bring him ,  dead or living ,  within this twelvemonth or turn thou no more to seek a living in our territory .
why ,  sir ,  her name’s a word ,  and to dally with that word might make my sister wanton .
twas a rough night .
o ,  you and i have heard our fathers say there was a brutus once that would have brook'd the eternal devil to keep his state in rome as easily as a king .
marry ,  that ,  i think ,  be young petruchio .
if that may be then all is well .
to alonso] sir ,  we were talking that our garments seem [to alonso] sir ,  we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at tunis at the marriage of your daughter ,  who is not queen .
let's after him, whose care is gone before to bid us welcome: it is a peerless kinsman.
in good time !
though our lives— your spirits shine through you .
when you are gentle ,  you shall have one too ,  and not till then .
shame itself!
i do desire no more .
that is another simple sin in you ,  to bring the ewes and the rams together and to offer to get your living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a bellwether and to betray a she - lamb of a twelvemonth to a crooked - pated old cuckoldly ram ,  out of all reasonable match .
knock knock knock, knock, knock, knock!
fore god ,  an excellent song .
i am informed thoroughly of the cause .
what is your name ?
i’ll none of it .
i do not think't .
go sleep, and hear us.
mark .
how may we try it further ?
as far, my lord, as will fill up the time ’twixt this and supper.
men must not walk too late.
precious villain !
life's but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more.
is caesar yet gone to the capitol?
need you my help?
for ,  as i am a soldier ,  a name that in my thoughts becomes me best ,  if i begin the batt'ry once again ,  i will not leave the half - achieved harfleur till in her ashes she lie burièd .
pray you ,  sit still .
pardon me, good lady; for, by these blessed candles of the night, had you been there, i think, you would have begg'd the ring of me to give the worthy doctor.
we are no tyrant ,  but a christian king ,  unto whose grace our passion is as subject as is our wretches fettered in our prisons .
you say true; 'tis so ,  indeed .
tell your piteous heart there’s no harm done .
ne'er pull your hat upon your brows; give sorrow words.
ay ,  lord .
take it in what sense thou wilt .
live ,  and hereafter say a madman's mercy bid thee run away .
no .
thus do i ever make my fool my purse .
i have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins that almost freezes up the heat of life.
tell not me of mercy;— this is the fool that lent out money gratis;— gaoler ,  look to him .
alas, iago, my lord hath so bewhored her, thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her, as true hearts cannot bear.
up ,  up ,  and see the great doom's image !
what needs this iteration ,  woman ?
i am content ,  so thou wilt have it so .
in faith ,  lady ,  you have a merry heart .
or came it by request, and such fair question as soul to soul affordeth?
when i spoke that ,  i was ill - temper'd too .
yet ,  forgive me ,  god ,  that i do brag thus .
give room !
a sweet woman !
and therefore is love said to be a child ,  because in choice he is so oft beguiled .
and ,  pretty fool ,  it stinted and said  “ ay .  ”  enough of this .
revenge .
my dearest love, duncan comes here tonight.
that’s not the tune .
for you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard ,  and is to come again .
by report i know him well .
you’ll let us in ,  i hope ?
we will try it.
believe me ,  i am not .
how is it, my lord?
where is he gone ?
tut ,  tut ,  my lord ,  we will not stand to prate .
too long a pause for that which you find there.
i’ll call sir toby the whilst .
sit i' th' middle .
but ,  as you say ,  sir ,  let your bounty take a nap ,  i will awake it anon .
but there is two hard things; that is ,  to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for ,  you know ,  pyramus and thisbe meet by moonlight .
who's there ?
my lord ,  upon the platform where we watch'd .
therefore be patient, take no note of him.
no ,  messala .
why did you laugh then ,  when i said man delights not me ?
i wish we may, but yet have i a mind that fears him much, and my misgiving still falls shrewdly to the purpose.
o, farewell, farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump, the spiritstirring drum, the earpiercing fife, the royal banner, and all quality, pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!
what light through yonder window breaks ?
use desdemona well .
i’ll be at charges for a looking glass and entertain a score or two of tailors to study fashions to adorn my body .
why do you speak so startingly and rash ?
worse and worse .
is the duke of exeter safe ?
say, my spirit, how fares the king and's followers?
who's there?
nay ,  press not so upon me .
ha, ha!
yet she must die, else she'll betray more men.
good .
why dost thou wring thy hands ?
it is a business of some heat .
most veritable; therefore look to't well.
haply the seas ,  and countries different ,  with variable objects shall expel this something - settled matter in his heart ,  whereon his brains still beating puts him thus from fashion of himself .
the most you sought was her promotion ,  for ’twas your heaven she should be advanced .
your lady mother is coming to your chamber .
who's there ?
but mark ,  poor knight ,  what dreadful dole is here !
look, look!
i say you are not.
his life i gave him and did thereto add my love ,  without retention or restraint ,  all his in dedication .
ay ,  and said nothing but what i protest intendment of doing .
no man’s life was to be trusted with them .
what hath he said?
sister ,  have comfort .
these fifteen years !
do not talk to me ,  emilia .
why, such is love's transgression.
come ,  bring away .
well ,  we will leave you then till dinner - time .
upon her landing ,  antony sent to her ,  invited her to supper .
nay ,  you need not fear us ,  lorenzo .
precious villain!
he speaks home ,  madam .
come ,  come; cut thread and thrum; quail ,  crush ,  conclude ,  and quell .
never ,  till caesar's three and thirty wounds be well avenged ,  or till another caesar have added slaughter to the sword of traitors .
to cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there .
what is thy news then ?
give him the cup .
i think i can discover him ,  if you please to get good guard and go along with me .
when did you lose your daughter?
with all my heart ,  so thou canst get a wife .
you'll ask me, why i rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh, than to receive three thousand ducats: i'll not answer that: but, say, it is my humour.
in the meantime ,  let me be that i am ,  and seek not to alter me .
in your bad strokes ,  brutus ,  you give good words .
i can keep honest counsel ,  ride ,  run ,  mar a curious tale in telling it ,  and deliver a plain message bluntly .
my mind is changed .
what, to kiss in private?
marry ,  do i ,  sir ,  and i came to acquaint you with a matter .
women grow by men.
it would seem strange unto him when he waked .
send for the man and ask him .
look where it comes again!
for ever and for ever farewell ,  brutus !
no, nor more fearful.
a plague upon you all !
call them again .
at your kind'st leisure.
let go his arm .
wilt thou at ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
weep'st thou for him to my face ?
wherefore ?
cold friends to me .
he ran this way ,  and leapt this orchard wall .
tis good you know not that you are his heirs, for if you should, o, what would come of it!
you strike my people ,  and your disordered rabble make servants of their betters .
i'll re you ,  i'll fa you .
melt egypt into nile ,  and kindly creatures turn all to serpents .
excellent good .
dead art thou !
these are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i' the alehouse .
go forth ,  agrippa ,  and begin the fight .
song] you spotted snakes with double tongue ,  thorny hedgehogs ,  be not seen; newts and blind - worms ,  do no wrong ,  come not near our fairy queen .
where are they?
lucentio is your name .
is not thy master with him ?
never did mockers waste more idle breath.
you shall not in your funeral speech blame us, but speak all good you can devise of caesar, and say you do't by our permission, else shall you not have any hand at all about his funeral.
then is courtesy a turncoat .
draw thy sword and give me sufficing strokes for death .
is execution done on cawdor?
sir ,  you and i must part ,  but that’s not it .
antonio shall become bound,—well.
sirrah ,  what made your master in this place ?
take up the bodies .
the children thus disposed ,  my wife and i ,  fixing our eyes on whom our care was fixed ,  fastened ourselves at either end the mast and ,  floating straight ,  obedient to the stream ,  was carried towards corinth ,  as we thought .
his name is romeo, and a montague, the only son of your great enemy.
who is ’t that calls ?
peace . —who comes here ?
a pound of man's flesh, taken from a man, is not so estimable, profitable neither, as flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats.
with what ,  i' th' name of god ?
nay ,  not sure ,  in a thing falsing .
thus i conceive by him .
tis passing good .
fear not ,  cesario .
methinks you’re better spoken .
on the instant they got clear of our ship; so i alone became their prisoner.
a calendar ,  a calendar !
at your request !
ay ,  more .
we'll keep no great ado— a friend or two; for hark you, tybalt being slain so late, it may be thought we held him carelessly, being our kinsman, if we revel much.
let romeo hence in haste, else, when he is found, that hour is his last.
lend me a garter .
tonight in harfleur will we be your guest; tomorrow for the march are we addressed .
cold ,  cold ,  my girl ,  even like thy chastity .
what should i think on ’t ?
wherefore ?
i must be cruel only to be kind .
the love that follows us sometime is our trouble, which still we thank as love.
wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit i made to thee?
dear maid ,  kind sister ,  sweet ophelia !
you shall not in your funeral speech blame us ,  but speak all good you can devise of caesar ,  and say you do ’t by our permission .
i do not like the office .
you are jealous now that this is from some mistress ,  some remembrance: no ,  by my faith ,  bianca .
this cannot anger him .
he was not born to shame .
what committed !
i have a wife, whom i protest i love; i would she were in heaven, so she could entreat some power to change this currish jew.
but if you would consider the true cause why all these fires ,  why all these gliding ghosts ,  why birds and beasts from quality and kind ,  why old men fool ,  and children calculate ,  why all these things change from their ordinance ,  their natures and preformed faculties ,  to monstrous quality ,  why ,  you shall find that heaven hath infused them with these spirits to make them instruments of fear and warning unto some monstrous state .
but what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed ,  one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself ?
he does confess he feels himself distracted, but from what cause he will by no means speak.
i would i were thy bird .
amen to that, sweet powers!
stand up.
yet keep the french the field .
they call for dates and quinces in the pastry .
thou liest, malignant thing!
home ,  you idle creatures ,  get you home .
goats and monkeys !
come on ,  nerissa ,  i have work in hand that you yet know not of .
the forfeit ,  sovereign ,  of my servant’s life ,  who slew today a riotous gentleman lately attendant on the duke of norfolk .
stain'd with blood ?
is ’t not perfect conscience to quit him with this arm ?
why ,  doth not every earthly thing cry shame upon her ?
did he take interest?
longer, longer.
ay ,  if the devil tempt you to do good .
tonight i’ll mourn with hero .
do thou but close our hands with holy words, then love-devouring death do what he dare— it is enough i may but call her mine.
how does my bounteous sister?
oh ,  i am out of breath in this fond chase .
lady!
thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense ,  so forcible is thy wit .
stand there!
time travels in diverse paces with diverse persons .
yea ,  noise ?
good even ,  casca .
here, 'tis, most reverend doctor, here it is.
if thou canst love a fellow of this temper ,  kate ,  whose face is not worth sunburning ,  that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there ,  let thine eye be thy cook .
i would i had thy inches .
i am not here .
with all my heart .
i know not, madam.
nothing will come of nothing .
i myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed .
how answer you that ?
for lead ?
now the witch take me if i meant it thus !
his better doth not breathe upon the earth .
this is the monkey's own giving out.
arise .
you speak all your part at once ,  cues and all . —pyramus ,  enter .
now, antony, our hopes are answered.
i will not.
irreparable is the loss, and patience says it is past her cure.
i thank you ,  sir .
oh ,  me ,  lieutenant !
no ,  forbear .
his looks i fear, and his intents i doubt.
but men are men; the best sometimes forget: though cassio did some little wrong to him ,  as men in rage strike those that wish them best ,  yet surely cassio ,  i believe ,  received from him that fled some strange indignity ,  which patience could not pass .
that is a step on which i must fall down, or else o'erleap, for in my way it lies.
dost thou love pictures ?
not in my house ,  lucentio ,  for you know pitchers have ears ,  and i have many servants .
i have .
shylock ,  do you hear ?
be angry when you will ,  it shall have scope .
soft you; a word or two before you go .
i cannot tell; i make it breed as fast: but note me ,  signior .
up and down ,  up and down ,  i will lead them up and down .
never to speak of this that you have seen .
the concernancy, sir?
pray you ,  leave your courtesy ,  good monsieur .
if your leisure served ,  i would speak with you .
i do bite my thumb ,  sir .
how now ,  cassio !
the wildest hath not such a heart as you .
ay ,  but their sense is shut .
yonder, sir, he walks.
but for all that ,  to my thinking ,  he would fain have had it .
o spite !
where be your gibes now?
he hath not yet made wan -  ton the night with her ,  and she is sport for jove .
you have too courtly a wit for me .
silence!
what news?
that's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams.
it is a letter from my brother that i have not all o'er - read .
most noble empress ,  you have heard of me ?
for three months , —well .
our hostess keeps her state ,  but in best time we will require her welcome .
every man shift for all the rest, and let no man take care for himself; for all is but fortune.
the excuse that thou dost make in this delay is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
if it be that— if it be that ,  or any that was hers ,  it speaks against her with the other proofs .
nay ,  we will all of us be there to fetch him .
to alonso] i would with such perfection govern ,  sir ,  [to alonso] i would with such perfection govern ,  sir ,  t'excel the golden age .
you have done that you should be sorry for.
false justicer ,  why hast thou let her ’scape ?
am i the master here ,  or you ?
my friend stephano ,  signify ,  i pray you ,  within the house ,  your mistress is at hand: and bring your music forth into the air .
is not this man jealous?
be merciful ,  say  “ death ,  ”  for exile hath more terror in his look ,  much more than death .
an if thou could'st, thou could'st not make him live.
he was a goodly king .
never believe it.
well, god 'eild you!
and what make you from wittenberg ,  horatio ? — marcellus ?
tybalt is gone, and romeo banished; romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
let him write down the prince’s officer  “ coxcomb .  ”  come ,  bind them . —thou naughty varlet !
you ,  sir ?
heavens thank you for't .
both with an r. ah, mocker!
let us haste to hear it ,  and call the noblest to the audience .
it is his .
read on this book, that show of such an exercise may colour your loneliness.
how now ,  general ?
instance ,  briefly .
whither indeed ,  before thy here - approach ,  old siward ,  with ten thousand warlike men ,  already at a point ,  was setting forth .
ho, guildenstern!
o lord ,  methought what pain it was to drown ,  what dreadful noise of waters in my ears ,  what sights of ugly death within my eyes .
into what dangers would you lead me, cassius, that you would have me seek into myself for that which is not in me?
howl ,  howl ,  howl ,  howl !
ha!
will money buy 'em ?
love is a smoke rais'd with the fume of sighs; being purg'd, a fire sparkling in lovers’ eyes; being vex'd, a sea nourish'd with lovers’ tears.
they laugh that win .
no sovereignty—     yet he would be king on ’t .
not a mouse stirring.
slave !
thou shalt be lord of it ,  and i'll server thee .
let us take the law of our sides; let them begin .
could you not take some occasion without giving ?
mean you his majesty?
at the duke's oak we meet .
have at you with a proverb: shall i set in my staff ?
my tables—meet it is i set it down that one may smile, and smile, and be a villain; at least i am sure it may be so in denmark.
by cheshu ,  i think he will plow up all if there is not better directions .
i do beseech you ,  sir ,  trouble yourself no further .
but ,  too unruly deer ,  he breaks the pale and feeds from home .
where is this rash and most unfortunate man?
i hope your majesty is pear me testimony and witness ,  and will avouchment that this is the glove of alençon that your majesty is give me ,  in your conscience now .
up ,  my lords .
the good years shall devour them ,  flesh and fell ,  ere they shall make us weep .
come away .
tis very true .
let us go in together; and still your fingers on your lips, i pray.
one aloof stand sentinel .
revenge .
soul of rome !
trinculo ,  keep a good tongue in your head .
and now i have the boy ,  i will undo this hateful imperfection of her eyes .
thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies in motion of no less celerity than that of thought .
all men’s faces are true ,  whatsome’er their hands are .
tis well .
if i know this ,  know all the world besides ,  that part of tyranny that i do bear i can shake off at pleasure .
i met the youthful lord at laurence’ cell and gave him what becomed love i might ,  not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty .
why ,  love ,  i say !
farewell ,  dear father .
it is clean out of the way.
you’ll bear me a bang for that ,  i fear .
i know this act shows horrible and grim.
i do not think ’t .
ay ,  let the county take you in your bed .
i am unfortunate in the infirmity ,  and dare not task my weakness with any more .
so ,  good night unto you all .
a greater power than we can contradict hath thwarted our intents .
for this relief much thanks.
is ’t good or bad ?
fetch that gallant hither .
i am never merry when i hear sweet music .
take not her part .
doctor, the thanes fly from me.
why may not imagination trace the noble dust of alexander till he find it stopping a bung - hole ?
madam ,  i go with all convenient speed .
his son is elder ,  sir .
what is a man, if his chief good and market of his time be but to sleep and feed?
he never gave commandment for their death.
chastisement !
the ears are senseless that should give us hearing ,  to tell him his commandment is fulfilled ,  that rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead .
is my lord angry?
he, he, ’tis he.
what, my lord?
i will praise any man that will praise me ,  though it cannot be denied what i have done by land .
i am.
these time ambles withal .
be happy .
but if that i am i ,  then well i know your weeping sister is no wife of mine ,  nor to her bed no homage do i owe .
do not talk of him but as a property.
what's the matter?
what, shall i groan and tell thee?
maybe the letter moved him ,  for ,  as i think ,  they do command him home ,  deputing cassio in his government .
anon ,  as patient as the female dove when that her golden couplets are disclosed ,  his silence will sit drooping .
i cannot tell .
who offered him the crown?
and as i say ,  retire with me to my lodging ,  from whence i will fitly bring you to hear my lord speak .
what, do you shake at that?
i have said .
farewell ,  good strato .
indeed he hath play'd on this prologue like a child on a recorder , —a sound ,  but not in government .
yet words do well when he that speaks them pleases those that hear .
i prithee ,  strato ,  stay thou by thy lord .
he is not here .
do you not know me ,  father ?
burn but his books .
who's there?
are you honest ?
this is most brave ,  that i ,  the son of a dear father murder'd ,  prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell ,  must ,  like a whore ,  unpack my heart with words and fall a - cursing like a very drab ,  a scullion !
how wilt thou do for a father ?
i am an ass ,  indeed; you may prove it by my long ears . —i have served him from the hour of my nativity to this instant ,  and have nothing at his hands for my service but blows .
nor ever heard ,  nor ever did suspect .
i prithee now ,  ungird thy strangeness and tell me what i shall vent to my lady .
i once did lend my body for his wealth ,  which but for him that had your husband’s ring had quite miscarried .
nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight .
if thou account’st it shame ,  lay it on me ,  and therefore frolic !
she is indeed perfection.
my dear othello !
ha !
if thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him, i spurn thee like a cur out of my way.
tedious and brief!
poor prattler ,  how thou talk'st !
why ,  then all souls' day is my body’s doomsday .
say she shall be a high and mighty queen .
whoever bound him ,  i will loose his bonds and gain a husband by his liberty . — speak ,  old egeon ,  if thou be’st the man that hadst a wife once called emilia ,  that bore thee at a burden two fair sons .
slay !
god pardon sin !
he is or ta'en or slain .
is't so ,  indeed ?
i would not for the wealth of all this town here in my house do him disparagement .
you seem to understand me ,  by each at once her choppy finger laying upon her skinny lips .
why are you silent ?
my babes were destined to a fairer death if grace had blessed thee with a fairer life .
murder and treason !
indeed ,  i should have asked thee that before .
dream on ,  dream on ,  of bloody deeds and death .
my fairy lord ,  this must be done with haste ,  for night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast; and yonder shines aurora's harbinger ,  at whose approach ,  ghosts ,  wandering here and there ,  troop home to churchyards .
how noble in reason!
this dream is all amiss interpreted .
yes ,  that the king is dead .
beggar that i am, i am even poor in thanks; but i thank you; and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny.
i’ll make you amends next ,  to give you nothing for something .
but that a joy past joy calls out on me ,  it were a grief so brief to part with thee .
he hath not told us of the captain yet .
be near at hand; i may miscarry in't.
o my lord !
tomorrow dinner then?
come ,  sir ,  dispatch .
for every minute is expectancy of more arrivance .
set on ,  and leave no ceremony out .
i have too grieved a heart to take a tedious leave .
break we our watch up; and by my advice let us impart what we have seen tonight unto young hamlet; for ,  upon my life ,  this spirit ,  dumb to us ,  will speak to him .
stands scotland where it did ?
weeping and wailing over tybalt's corse.
let not your ears despise my tongue for ever, which shall possess them with the heaviest sound that ever yet they heard.
i am full of pleasure .
bloody ,  bawdy villain !
sings drunkenly] farewell ,  master ,  farewell ,  farewell !
ay .
but here they come .
and as i wooed for thee to obtain her ,  i will join with thee to disgrace her .
if i live to be as old as sibylla i will die as chaste as diana, unless i be obtained by the manner of my father's will.
good thou, save me a piece of marchpane and, as thou lovest me, let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell.
despised ,  distressèd ,  hated ,  martyred ,  killed !
how is ’t ,  brother !
my services ,  which i have done the signiory ,  shall out - tongue his complaints .
fellow ,  come from the throng .
mine eyes are made the fools o’ the other senses ,  or else worth all the rest .
is not your husband mad ?
my lord ,  i know not what the matter is ,  but to my judgment your highness is not entertained with that ceremonious affection as you were wont .
art thou wise ?
i have done .
once more ,  what news ?
what is the prince's doom?
i charge you ,  go with me .
egeus, i will overbear your will; for in the temple, by and by, with us these couples shall eternally be knit.
tell thou the tale !
i neither know it nor can learn of him.
he can report, as seemeth by his plight, of the revolt the newest state.
i will return again into the house and desire some conduct of the lady .
for your dwelling, briefly.
thou art not conquer'd.
you must therefore be content to slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous expedition.
signior bassanio, hear me: if i do not put on a sober habit, talk with respect, and swear but now and then, wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely; nay more, while grace is saying, hood mine eyes thus with my hat, and sigh, and say amen; use all the observance of civility, like one well studied in a sad ostent to please his grandam,—never trust me more.
i can tell you; but young romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him .
and shall our quick blood ,  spirited with wine ,  seem frosty ?
peace, i have done.
now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee .
where is my love ?
it shall be done ,  my lord .
since he went from egypt ’tis a space for farther travel .
how now ,  sir ?
i do beseech you .
for hecuba !
tell him there's a post come from my master ,  with his horn full of good news; my master will be here ere morning .
is she not down so late, or up so early?
your eyes drop millstones ,  when fools' eyes drop tears .
save thee ,  curan .
let the earth hide thee!
why ,  what care i ?
farewell, dear mother.
have you eyes ?
and if tomorrow our navy thrive ,  i have an absolute hope our landmen will stand up .
no.
what ,  gertrude ?
what should he be ?
why ,  romeo ,  art thou mad ?
yes ,  truly;—for ,  look you ,  the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children; therefore ,  i promise you i fear you .
i will go lose myself and wander up and down to view the city .
if we do meet again, we'll smile indeed; if not, 'tis true this parting was well made.
too cruel any where .
are you up?
no ,  coz ,  i rather weep .
it struck mine ear most terribly .
macbeth!
fare thee well .
he hath brought many captives home to rome, whose ransoms did the general coffers fill.
madam ,  i come to whet your gentle thoughts on his behalf .
here is the scroll of every man's name, which is thought fit, through all athens, to play in our interlude before the duke and the duchess on his wedding-day at night.
my ancestors did from the streets of rome the tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king.
coragio ,  bully -  monster ,  coragio !
hast any philosophy in thee ,  shepherd ?
with the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and prove an ass .
ho!
thou rememberest since once i sat upon a promontory ,  and heard a mermaid ,  on a dolphin's back uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath ,  that the rude sea grew civil at her song ,  and certain stars shot madly from their spheres to hear the sea - maid's music .
awake !
oft have i heard of sanctuary men ,  but sanctuary children ,  ne'er till now .
it faded on the crowing of the cock .
twenty crowns ?
how now, wife?
what wouldst thou beg, laertes, that shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
sir paris, i will make a desperate tender of my child's love.
what's the matter ?
i'll to my book ,  for yet ere supper - time must i perform much business appertaining .
then ,  if ever thou dar’st acknowledge it ,  i will make it my quarrel .
your worm is your only emperor for diet.
comfort me .
iago!
caesar’s .
under captain gower ,  my liege .
i would give you some violets ,  but they with -  er'd all when my father died .
why ,  then othello and desdemona return again to venice .
o, teach me how i should forget to think!
now i change my mind ,  and partly credit things that do presage .
not i ,  my lord ,  by heaven .
therefore confess thee freely of thy sin ,  for to deny each article with oath cannot remove nor choke the strong conception that i do groan withal .
what's this?
too old to be engag'd to young.
the crowner hath sat on her and finds it christian burial .
here at the door .
then leave him out.
what news from her ?
marcus luccicos ,  is not he in town ?
here ,  catch this casket .
you have said now .
at home ,  my lord .
so, as a painted tyrant, pyrrhus stood, and like a neutral to his will and matter, did nothing.
go not my horse the better, i must become a borrower of the night for a dark hour or twain.
i will neither be faced nor braved .
i will have my revenge ere i depart his house .
he is drowned whom thus we stray to find ,  and the sea mocks our frustrate search on land .
strike ,  drum .
gentlemen all, i do suspect this trash to be a party in this injury.
if you'll sit down i'll bear your logs the while .
thou’dst thank me but a little for my counsel; and yet i’ll promise thee she shall be rich ,  and very rich .
a noble prisoner!
a pound of man's flesh ,  taken from a man ,  is not so estimable ,  profitable neither ,  as flesh of muttons ,  beefs ,  or goats .
o ,  reform it altogether !
and i pray thee now tell me ,  for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me ?
the french might have a good prey of us if he knew of it ,  for there is none to guard it but boys .
i am sorry .
get you gone and hasten your return .
down with the capulets!
there were none fine but adam ,  rafe ,  and gregory .
call forth my household servants .
do not approach till thou dost hear me call.
i do forget .
for them all together ,  which maintained so politic a state of evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them .
but yet—   which ,  of he or adrian ,  for a good wager ,  first begins to crow ?
now ,  beshrew my father’s ambition !
i like the work well .
but as yet ,  i swear ,  i cannot truly say how i came here .
good sentences ,  and well pronounced .
for ,  meeting her of late behind the wood ,  seeking sweet favors from this hateful fool ,  i did upbraid her and fall out with her .
but, for your private satisfaction, because i love you, i will let you know.
by my troth ,  sir ,  no—though it please you to be one of my friends .
give me mine armor.
do the boys carry it away?
god bless your worship!
how sometimes his replies are!
i’ll bear thy blame and take thy office from thee ,  on my peril .
besides ,  antonio certified the duke they were not with bassanio in his ship .
my dear master ,  my captain ,  and my emperor ,  let me say ,  before i strike this bloody stroke ,  farewell .
you are welcome: take your place .
i warrant it will .
you are welcome, sir, to cyprus.
let him not leave out the color of her hair .
he needs not our mistrust ,  since he delivers our offices and what we have to do ,  to the direction just .
more knocking: get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us and show us to be watchers.
philomel with melody ,  &amp;c .  hence away; now all is well .
i am glad on ’t .
they shall, nerissa; but in such a habit, that they shall think we are accomplished with that we lack.
look ,  where thy love comes .
within these two months—that’s a month before this bond expires—i do expect return of thrice three times the value of this bond .
i will send for him ,  and question him yourself .
alas ,  what does this gentleman conceive ?
she should have died hereafter .
if thou art fickle ,  what dost thou with him that is renown'd for faith ?
o ,  gentlemen ,  see ,  see dead henry’s wounds open their congealed mouths and bleed afresh ! — blush ,  blush ,  thou lump of foul deformity ,  for ’tis thy presence that exhales this blood from cold and empty veins where no blood dwells .
tis twenty years till then .
the terms of our estate may not endure hazard so near us as doth hourly grow out of his brows.
o my breast, thy hope ends here!
hold you the watch tonight?
go to, you are not, cassius.
leave me and do the thing i bid thee do .
near and on speedy foot .
i would not hear your enemy say so, nor shall you do my ear that violence to make it truster of your own report against yourself.
the son is fled .
is there no play to ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
yes ,  sir .
who ,  i ,  my lord ?
why ,  know'st thou any harm's intended towards him ?
we'll hear a play to-morrow.
since that my beauty cannot please his eye ,  i’ll weep what’s left away ,  and weeping die .
a braggart ,  a rogue ,  a villain ,  that fights by the book of arithmetic !
let me entreat you .
i would we were well rid of this knavery .
dost thou not laugh?
come ,  go with me; peruse this as thou goest: fair jessica shall be my torchbearer .
men’s eyes were made to look and let them gaze .
quail ,  crush ,  conclude ,  and quell !
what ,  not a whore ?
at home ,  my lord .
and you ,  sir .
then hie you hence to friar laurence’ cell; there stays a husband to make you a wife.
be valiant ,  and speed well .
shame itself !
they know your grace hath cause and means and might; so hath your highness .
alack the day .
i love you with so much of my heart that none is left to protest .
how chance the roses there do fade so fast ?
i pray you .
your fortune stood upon the caskets there ,  and so did mine too ,  as the matter falls: for wooing here ,  until i sweat again ,  and swearing until my very roof was dry with oaths of love ,  at last , —if promise last , — i got a promise of this fair one here ,  to have her love ,  provided that your fortune achiev'd her mistress .
a hit ,  a very palpable hit .
i should ev'n die with pity to see another thus .
oh ,  couldst thou speak ,  that i might hear thee call great caesar ass unpolicied !
none ,  but your beauty .
will he tell us what this show meant ?
an you'll come to supper tonight, you may; an you will not, come when you are next prepared for.
thus do all traitors .
peace !
how say you ?
you rogue !
i this infer: that many things ,  having full reference to one consent ,  may work contrariously ,  as many arrows loosèd several ways come to one mark ,  as many ways meet in one town ,  as many fresh streams meet in one salt sea ,  as many lines close in the dial’s center ,  so may a thousand actions ,  once afoot ,  end in one purpose ,  and be all well borne without defeat .
to you your father should be as a god; one that composed your beauties; yea, and one to whom you are but as a form in wax, by him imprinted, and within his power to leave the figure, or disfigure it.
i know my remedy .
alas ,  that they are so ,  to die even when they to perfection grow !
thou art a traitor— off with his head .
by foul play ,  as thou sayst ,  were we heaved thence ,  but blessedly holp hither .
thou mak'st me merry; i am full of pleasure .
light ,  gentlemen ,  i’ll bind it with my shirt .
till birnam wood remove to dunsinane i cannot taint with fear .
tis now struck twelve .
if he come tomorrow ,  i’ll give him his payment .
a fine woman !
my lord ,  you shall o'errule my mind for once . — come on ,  lord hastings ,  will you go with me ?
know you before whom ,  sir ?
do all men kill the things they do not love ?
a goodly one; in which there are many confines ,  wards ,  and dungeons ,  denmark being one o' the worst .
it must be by his death ,  and for my part i know no personal cause to spurn at him but for the general .
now, most noble brutus, the gods today stand friendly, that we may, lovers in peace, lead on our days to age!
were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold ?
bernardo?
soft !
well ,  then ,  confess ,  and live .
but till that time i do receive your offer'd love like love, and will not wrong it.
and we mean well in going to this mask ,  but ’tis no wit to go .
both which ,  master constable— you have .
she that ,  so young ,  could give out such a seeming ,  to seel her father’s eyes up close as oak ,  he thought ’twas witchcraft .
our general cast us thus early for the love of his desdemona; who let us not therefore blame .
come ,  you spirits that tend on mortal thoughts ,  unsex me here and fill me ,  from the crown to the toe ,  top - full of direst cruelty !
and i another .
now ,  were not i a little pot and soon hot ,  my very lips might freeze to my teeth ,  my tongue to the roof of my mouth ,  my heart in my belly ,  ere i should come by a fire to thaw me .
but ,  hark ,  i hear the footing of a man .
i have seen her die twenty times upon far poorer moment .
how came he mad?
there was a noise ,  that’s verily .
father ,  what news ?
that's not amiss; but yet keep time in all.
she speaks, yet she says nothing.
murder?
didst thou not hear a noise?
a husband ?
richard loves richard; that is ,  i and i .
doth thy other mouth call me?
i follow thee .
o weary night ,  o long and tedious night ,  abate thy hours .
some holy angel fly to the court of england and unfold his message ere he come ,  that a swift blessing may soon return to this our suffering country under a hand accursed !
i would not be delay'd.
let go !
turning th' accomplishment of many years into an hour - glass; for the which supply ,  admit me chorus to this history; who ,  prologue - like ,  your humble patience pray gently to hear ,  kindly to judge our play .
what ,  a feast ,  a feast ?
a beast that wants discourse of reason would have mourn'd longer—married with my uncle, my father's brother, but no more like my father than i to hercules.
where is montjoy the herald ?
whither am i going ?
is't possible?
the less they deserve ,  the more merit is in your bounty .
for two ,  and sound ones too .
is rosaline ,  that thou didst love so dear ,  so soon forsaken ?
i prithee ,  do so .
wert thou not my brother ,  i would not take this hand from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy tongue for saying so .
if there be any in this assembly ,  any dear friend of caesar’s ,  to him i say that brutus' love to caesar was no less than his .
i’ll hold my mind were she an ethiope .
but is it true, salerio?
amen, amen, to that fair prayer say i; and then end life when i end loyalty!
as much to him ,  else is his thanks too much .
poor tom ,  thy horn is dry .
and i do think she’s thirty .
to vouch this, is no proof, without more certain and more overt test than these thin habits and poor likelihoods of modern seeming do prefer against him.
what would she have ?
sir, i will answer any thing.
say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths, or from our masters?
come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites, and show the best of our delights.
and i .
say that i did all this for love of her .
you taught me language ,  and my profit on ’t is i know how to curse .
i pray ,  weep not .
signor bassanio ,  hear me .
what noise?
how many fond fools serve mad jealousy !
i beseech thee ,  youth ,  put not another sin upon my head by urging me to fury .
my back a' t' other side .
life ,  living ,  all is death's .
she desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you go to bed.
by your leave ,  sir .
ha ,  ha !
well then ,  now have you considered of my speeches ?
have you a mind to sink ?
being done, there is no pause.
francis flute ,  the bellows - mender ?
ay ,  his breast .
then, brutus, i have much mistook your passion, by means whereof this breast of mine hath buried thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
i would i were senseless ,  sir ,  that i might not feel your blows .
therefore this project should have a back or second, that might hold if this did blast in proof.
in such a night as this ,  when the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees and they did make no noise ,  in such a night troilus methinks mounted the trojan walls and sighed his soul toward the grecian tents where cressid lay that night .
indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
come caesar to the capitol tomorrow?
i shall answer that better to the commonwealth ,  than you can the getting up of the negro's belly; the moor is with child by you ,  launcelot .
peaseblossom .
well ,  sir ,  my mistress is the sweetest lady .
faith ,  no; as you may season it in the charge .
those are the raised father and his friends .
troth ,  my lord ,  i have played the part of lady fame .
a plague upon the tyrant that i serve !
to know my errand, madam.
why ,  how now ,  kinsman ?
seems, madam?
o most lame and impotent conclusion!
i think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation .
what thinkest thou of his opinion ?
how does lieutenant cassio ?
the earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she; she is the hopeful lady of my earth .
look, how he laughs already!
you shall read us the will, caesar's will.
will you withdraw ?
is he well ?
you wrong me ,  signior gremio .
what of that ?
and so return to you ,  and nothing else ?
who's here ?
yet, i beseech you, if you think fit, or that it may be done, give me advantage of some brief discourse with desdemona alone.
what else?
donalbain.
marry ,  peace it bodes ,  and love ,  and quiet life ,  and awful rule ,  and right supremacy ,  and ,  to be short ,  what not that’s sweet and happy ?
madam, good night.
come ,  sweet audrey .
meantime forbear ,  and let mischance be slave to patience . — bring forth the parties of suspicion .
of one not easily jealous ,  but being wrought ,  perplexed in the extreme .
alas the day !
it fits when such a villain is a guest.
either to die the death, or to abjure for ever the society of men.
o happy dagger !
two such opposed kings encamp them still in man as well as herbs—grace and rude will; and where the worser is predominant, full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
and let the laboring bark climb hills of seas olympus high, and duck again as low as hell's from heaven!
come forth ,  thou fearful man .
and he that hath commanded is our king .
one of these three contains her heavenly picture.
good night ,  lieutenant ,  i must to the watch .
how may the duke be therewith satisfied, whose messengers are here about my side, upon some present business of the state to bring me to him?
they’ll tell the clock to any business that we say befits the hour .
would't had been done!
come ,  come with me ,  and we will make short work .
charles ,  i thank thee for thy love to me ,  which thou shalt find i will most kindly requite .
ay ,  my lord .
i remember the first time ever caesar put it on .
he only lived but till he was a man ,  the which no sooner had his prowess confirmed in the unshrinking station where he fought ,  but like a man he died .
you know not whether it was his wisdom or his fear .
and it is marvel he out - dwells his hour ,  for lovers ever run before the clock .
here is a sick man that would speak with you .
shall we give o'er and drown?
now we speak upon our cue ,  and our voice is imperial .
he hath known you but three days ,  and already you are no stranger .
o, i have bought the mansion of a love, but not possess'd it; and though i am sold, not yet enjoy'd.
i am not well in health, and that is all.
i am afeard ,  being in night ,  all this is but a dream ,  too flattering - sweet to be substantial .
cure her of that .
but were i brutus ,  and brutus antony ,  there were an antony would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue in every wound of caesar that should move the stones of rome to rise and mutiny .
will your grace command me any service to the world’s end ?
bear with him ,  brutus .
but ,  as he was ambitious ,  i slew him .
he lives that loves thee better than he could .
what of that ?
popilius lena speaks not of our purposes; for ,  look ,  he smiles ,  and caesar doth not change .
is this the prince ?
why is this reasoned ?
i am but mad north - north - west .
but what is your affair in elsinore ?
you ever gentle gods ,  take my breath from me .
o ,  sir ,  i will not be so hard - hearted .
there is more sense in that than in reputation .
you look wearily .
away !
what dost thou with thy best apparel on ?
thisbe ?
truly ,  she must be given ,  or the marriage is not lawful .
i would have him nine years akilling.
sweet ,  do not scorn her so .
lead, boy.
as wicked dew as e'er my mother brushed with raven’s feather from unwholesome fen drop on you both !
ay ,  madam ,  from the reach of these my hands .
why are you silent ?
as i descended ?
nay ,  but the devil take mocking .
if you dare fight today ,  come to the field; if not ,  when you have stomachs .
three civil brawls ,  bred of an airy word by thee ,  old capulet ,  and montague ,  have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets and made verona's ancient citizens cast by their grave beseeming ornaments to wield old partisans ,  in hands as old ,  canker’d with peace ,  to part your canker'd hate .
never fear that.
why ,  the hot - blooded france that dowerless took our youngest born—i could as well be brought to knee his throne ,  and ,  squirelike ,  pension beg to keep base life afoot .
we shall, my lord, perform what you command us.
o god, she comes!
are my deserts no better ?
moneys is your suit .
a rarer spirit never did steer humanity ,  but you gods will give us some faults to make us men .
up.
hush!
oh ,  ’tis treason !
i cannot tell what you and other men think of this life ,  but ,  for my single self ,  i had as lief not be as live to be in awe of such a thing as i myself .
to the selfsame tune and words.
bring forth the parties of suspicion.
now he importunes him to tell it o'er .
which now we find each putter-out of five for one will bring us good warrant of.
o my love!
never fear that .
what ,  has this thing appear'd again to - night ?
now ,  hamlet ,  hear .
we talk with goblins ,  owls ,  and sprites: if we obey them not ,  this will ensue: they’ll suck our breath ,  or pinch us black and blue .
i will go call the watch .
when i have plucked thy rose i cannot give it vital growth again ,  it must needs wither .
do you not know me, father?
i had rather be a peddler .
there lies the man ,  slain by young romeo ,  that slew thy kinsman ,  brave mercutio .
where is metellus cimber ?
i do believe it, and i ask your pardon.
and i, of ladies most deject and wretched, that suck'd the honey of his music vows, now see that noble and most sovereign reason, like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh; that unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth blasted with ecstasy.
your lordship speaks most infallibly of him .
he has no children .
i never did offend you in my life; never loved cassio but with such general warranty of heaven as i might love .
shall i speak a word in your ear ?
i should have been more strange ,  i must confess ,  but that thou overheard'st ,  ere i was ware ,  my true love's passion .
what is thy name ?
tell me that .
good master mustardseed ,  i know your patience well .
look ,  here i have you .
marvellous sweet music !
the enemies of caesar shall say this: then, in a friend, it is cold modesty.
if your mind dislike anything, obey it.
madam, it so fell out that certain players we o'erraught on the way.
we think not so ,  my lord .
i'll re you, i'll fa you.
arm, arm, and out!
but notwithstanding ,  haste .
put off your maiden blushes ,  avouch the thoughts of your heart with the looks of an empress ,  take me by the hand ,  and say  “ harry of england ,  i am thine ,  ”  which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine ear withal ,  but i will tell
true, he hath my love; and what is mine my love shall render him; and she is mine; and all my right of her i do estate unto demetrius.
marry ,  well said ,  very well said .
it is even so .
what, are you answer'd yet?
my lord, this is my daughter here asleep, and this lysander, this demetrius is, this helena, old nedar's helena.
where is she?
what man is that?
since he went into france i have been in continual practice.
wednesday is tomorrow .
i cry you gentle pardon; these bloody accidents must excuse my manners ,  that so neglected you .
say thou but ‘i,’ and that bare vowel ‘i’ shall poison more than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
madam, if you could find out but a man to bear a poison, i would temper it; that romeo should, upon receipt thereof, soon sleep in quiet.
and now, laertes, what's the news with you?
this doth betoken the corse they follow did with desperate hand fordo it own life.
no, sure, i cannot think it, that he would steal away so guiltylike, seeing you coming.
o conspiracy, shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night, when evils are most free?
caesar, i will.
but ,  oh ,  vain boast !
yet caesar shall go forth, for these predictions are to the world in general as to caesar.
this caesar was a tyrant .
thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers . — helen ,  i love thee .
i could play ercles rarely ,  or a part to tear a cat in to make all split .
here comes the lady .
well ,  i have done .
i would not have him miscarry for the half of my dowry .
mark him .
pray thee ,  marry us .
with drinking healths to my niece .
from the four corners of the earth they come to kiss this shrine ,  this mortal breathing saint .
from tripolis ,  from mexico ,  and england ,  from lisbon ,  barbary ,  and india ?
there if i grow, the harvest is your own.
the red plague rid you for learning me your language !
that eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh to raise my fortunes .
i'll devil-porter it no further.
though our lives— your spirits shine through you .
you told us of some suit .
that you do love me ,  i am nothing jealous .
are you a god ?
to her ,  widow !
heigh - ho .
good words are better than bad strokes, octavius.
my industrious servant, ariel!
what find i here?
impatient of my absence ,  and grief that young octavius with mark antony have made themselves so strong—for with her death that tidings came—with this she fell distract and ,  her attendants absent ,  swallowed fire .
look with thine ears .
aside.
you were sent for ,  and there is a kind of confession in your looks which your modesties have not craft enough to color .
sit down; for thou must now know farther .
thou call’st on him that hates thee .
poor and content is rich ,  and rich enough ,  but riches fineless is as poor as winter to him that ever fears he shall be poor .
what said my man when my betossed soul did not attend him as we rode ?
the time ’twixt six and now must by us both be spent most preciously.
o simple!
while we were interchanging thrusts and blows ,  came more and more and fought on part and part ,  till the prince came ,  who parted either part .
by foul play, as thou sayst, were we heaved thence, but blessedly holp hither.
a crutch, a crutch!
you would seem to know my stops .
soldier ,  thou art; but his whole action grows not in the power on ’t .
come ,  go we to the king .
there is an old poor man who after me hath many a weary step limped in pure love .
i was hurt under your arm .
bear him away .
do you confess the bond ?
this is the excellent foppery of the world that when we are sick in fortune—often the surfeit of our own behavior—we make guilty of our disasters the sun ,  the moon ,  and the stars ,  as if we were villains by necessity ,  fools by heavenly compulsion ,  knaves ,  thieves ,  and treachers by spherical predominance ,  drunkards ,  liars ,  and adulterers by an enforced obedience of planetary influence ,  and all that we are evil in by a divine thrusting - on .
out o' tune ,  sir .
o ,  how fit a word is that vile name to perish on my sword !
but what trade art thou ?
so be gone .
o, you and i have heard our fathers say there was a brutus once that would have brook'd the eternal devil to keep his state in rome as easily as a king.
mad call i it ,  for ,  to define true madness ,  what is ’t but to be nothing else but mad ?
yea ,  the same .
who calls on hamlet ?
you were best go in.
i am woe for't ,  sir .
why ask you this ?
no, let me not.
how sweet is love itself possessed when but love’s shadows are so rich in joy !
away ,  then .
what, ho!
i will get peter quince to write a ballad of this dream.
eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast—and but twelve persons there !
my honored lord !
o god ,  i have an ill - divining soul .
draw ,  you rogue ,  or i’ll so carbonado your shanks .
o day!
what man is that ?
i see you all are bent to set against me for your merriment .
whither will you that i go to answer this your charge ?
verona's summer hath not such a flower .
he dares not come there for the candle; for ,  you see ,  it is already in snuff .
if justice cannot tame you ,  she shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance .
the cunning of her passion invites me in this churlish messenger .
show me, show me.
his grace hath made the match ,  and all grace say  “ amen ”  to it .
is it your own inclin- ing?
well ,  thou hast comforted me marvellous much .
well ,  say ,  sir .
get me ink and paper and hire posthorses.
no ,  i hear not your honest friend; i hear you .
but swords i smile at ,  weapons laugh to scorn ,  brandish'd by man that's of a woman born .
there is no composition in these news that gives them credit .
they would be better, if well followed.
you are not pinch’s patient ,  are you ,  sir ?
good faith ,  good faith ,  the saying did not hold in him that did object the same to thee !
your grace does me as great honors as can be desired in the hearts of his subjects .
if ,  sir ,  perchance she have restrained the riots of your followers ,  'tis on such ground and to such wholesome end as clears her from all blame .
wast thou not charged at peril— wherefore to dover ? —let him first answer that .
ah, ha!
go, gratiano, run and overtake him; give him the ring; and bring him, if thou canst, unto antonio's house:—away!
i speak not like a dotard nor a fool ,  as under privilege of age to brag what i have done being young ,  or what would do were i not old .
i will not speak with her .
he's that he is.
she is not well .
my children too?
pray you put up your dagger ,  and put out your wit .
it must be your imagination then ,  and not theirs .
i cannot love him .
i dare not ,  sir .
how shall we beguile the lazy time ,  if not with some delight ?
faith ,  here's an english tailor come hither ,  for stealing out of a french hose .
my father—methinks i see my father .
where is metellus cimber?
come ,  montague; for thou art early up to see thy son and heir more early down .
i do not like the tower ,  of any place . — did julius caesar build that place ,  my lord ?
what call you the carriages ?
be not fond to think that caesar bears such rebel blood that will be thaw'd from the true quality with that which melteth fools ,  i mean sweet words ,  low - crooked court'sies ,  and base spaniel - fawning .
tis not needed yet .
i forget, but these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours, most busil'est, when i do it.
banquo !
o ,  'tis too true !
god help thee ,  shallow man .
i cannot tell what you and other men think of this life ,  but ,  for my single self ,  i had as lief not be as live to be in awe of such a thing as i myself .
heaven and earth !
to visit you ,  my lord; no other occasion .
the prince will doom thee death if thou art taken .
what ,  is there such a place ?
there's matter in these sighs .
give me the cups; and let the kettle to the trumpet speak ,  the trumpet to the cannoneer without ,  the cannons to the heavens ,  the heaven to earth ,  ‘now the king drinks to hamlet . ’ come ,  begin .
where’s satisfaction ?
ready, so please your grace.
signior montano ,  your trusty and most valiant servitor ,  with his free duty recommends you thus ,  and prays you to believe him .
what is your name?
is he not able to discharge the money ?
exit ariel] [exit ariel] awake, dear heart, awake!
that’s my fear .
o treason of the blood !
o noble sir !
what news more?
methinks i should know you ,  and know this man .
come .
since i have your good leave to go away ,  i will make haste: but ,  till i come again ,  no bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay ,  nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain .
i have o'ershot myself to tell you of it .
and what noise is this ?
come hither ,  sirrah .
dearly ,  my delicate ariel .
no ,  i will weep no more .
i pant for life .
how did you dare to trade and traffic with macbeth in riddles and affairs of death; and i ,  the mistress of your charms ,  the close contriver of all harms ,  was never call'd to bear my part ,  or show the glory of our art ?
well, let him go.
i will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him .
i am so much a fool ,  should i stay longer ,  it would be my disgrace and your discomfort .
my lord ,  his throat is cut .
leave wringing of your hands.
tis like the howling of irish wolves against the moon .
did you say all?
well ,  she shall be there .
give me my principal ,  and let me go .
will they not say afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common players—as it is most like, if their means are no better—their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession?
thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to know him .
can he that deny ?
juno sings her blessings upon you.
give me the daggers .
this comes too near the praising of myself, therefore, no more of it: hear other things.
and for three months .
o ,  my lord ,  you said that idle weeds are fast in growth .
let a beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess.
please't your highness to grace us with your royal company?
yes ,  better ,  sir .
i will follow .
sweet ,  say on .
i will chop her into messes.
ay ,  my lord ,  and of calveskins too .
eyes, do you see?
what in the contrary?
this afternoon, sir?
and in good time here the lieutenant comes . — master lieutenant ,  pray you ,  by your leave ,  how doth the prince and my young son of york ?
what think you on't?
my duty to you both ,  on equal love ,  great kings of france and england .
what a piece of work is a man !
a bloody deed .
how dost thou under -  stand the scripture ?
nay ,  ’tis no matter ,  sir ,  what he 'leges in latin .
be angry when you will, it shall have scope; do what you will, dishonor shall be humor.
i think he bought his doublet in italy ,  his round hose in france ,  his bonnet in germany and his behaviour everywhere .
if these be true spies which i wear in my head, here's a goodly sight.
what ,  ho ,  brabantio !
that would be scann'd.
madam ,  sleeps still .
what storm is this that blows so contrary ?
well, then, confess, and live.
speak ,  man .
i have a device to make all well .
ha ,  what sayest thou ?
if die ,  be brief ,  that our swift - wingèd souls may catch the king’s ,  or ,  like obedient subjects ,  follow him to his new kingdom of ne'er - changing night .
no, messala.
confusion now hath made his masterpiece.
my lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
you minion ,  you ,  are these your customers ?
her name ,  that was as fresh as dian’s visage ,  is now begrimed and black as mine own face .
it is the most impenetrable cur that ever kept with men.
i here do give thee that with all my heart which ,  but thou hast already ,  with all my heart i would keep from thee .
he attendeth here hard by ,  to know your answer ,  whether you'll admit him .
thus was i ,  sleeping ,  by a brother’s hand of life ,  of crown ,  of queen at once dispatched ,  cut off even in the blossoms of my sin ,
god save the worthy general !
then make a ring about the corse of caesar, and let me show you him that made the will.
i’ll fight at sea .
i confess it is my shame to be so fond ,  but it is not in my virtue to amend it .
i do not think it good.
i know his heart .
i'll get me to a place more void and there speak to great caesar as he comes along .
forgive me, cousin.
what do you see?
these times of woe afford no tune to woo.
the son and heir of old tiberio.
yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him ?
be gone !
what villains have done this?
no place indeed should murder sanctuarize; revenge should have no bounds.
dromio ,  what stuff of mine hast thou embarked ?
of them i have much to tell thee .
ay ,  marry ,  must you .
when this burns ,  'twill weep for having wearied you .
it's the wind .
i’ll devil - porter it no further .
give me now leave to leave thee .
i say ,  my daughter is my flesh and blood .
if you will take a homely man’s advice ,  be not found here .
o!
this does make some obstruction in the blood ,  this cross - gartering ,  but what of that ?
we must die, messala.
peace yet again!
how say you ,  then ?
off with that bauble ,  throw it underfoot .
thou saidst—oh ,  it comes o'er my memory ,  as doth the raven o'er the infectious house ,  boding to all—he had my handkerchief .
a spirit?
by my troth ,  thou hast an open hand .
if chance will have me king ,  why ,  chance may crown me without my stir .
why comest thou ?
what ,  jealous oberon !
draw the curtain straight .
his flight was madness .
peace then ,  no words .
masters ,  play here ,  i will content your pains; something that's brief; and bid  “ good morrow ,  general .  ”  why ,  masters ,  have your instruments been in naples ,  that they speak i' the nose thus ?
i did not think he had been acquainted with her .
well ,  my good lord ,  i'll do't .
hast thou forgot the foul witch sycorax ,  who with age and envy was grown into a hoop ?
who ,  sir andrew aguecheek ?
not now to hear thee sing .
my soul ,  and not my child !
what ,  the chain ?
the french have reinforced their scattered men .
be comforted .
i charge you ,  get you home .
and those that leave their valiant bones in france ,  dying like men though buried in your dunghills ,  they shall be famed; for there the sun shall greet them and draw their honors reeking up to heaven ,  leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime ,
call him hither to me ,  soldier .
no, sir, their hats are pluck'd about their ears, and half their faces buried in their cloaks, that by no means i may discover them by any mark of favor.
she was false as water.
o, give me thy hand, one writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
what noise is this ?
a very honest - hearted fellow ,  and as poor as the king .
yet do not fear; scotland hath foisons to fill up your will of your mere own.
ply desdemona well, and you are sure on't.
ay, widow dido.
shall we do that ?
had our general been what he knew himself ,  it had gone well .
poor antony !
sorry i am my noble cousin should suspect me that i mean no good to him .
how is ’t with you ?
but ,  as they say ,  to hear music the general does not greatly care .
nothing in his life became him like the leaving it; he died as one that had been studied in his death, to throw away the dearest thing he owed as ’twere a careless trifle.
o thou public commoner !
and from thy hated presence part i so; see me no more ,  whether he be dead or no .
therefore give out you are of epidamnum ,  lest that your goods too soon be confiscate .
would i might but ever see that man !
he is .
the english power is near ,  led on by malcolm ,  his uncle siward and the good macduff .
i pro- test unto thee— good heart, and i’ faith i will tell her as much.
good bawcock ,  'bate thy rage .
by'r lady, your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when i saw you last by the altitude of a chopine.
we’ll revenge his death .
that dreamers often lie .
but she is now the wife of marcus antonius .
hoo !
my lord shall never rest ,  i’ll watch him tame and talk him out of patience .
one way i like this well .
my lord bassanio ,  and my gentle lady ,  i wish you all the joy that you can wish; for i am sure you can wish none from me: and ,  when your honours mean to solemnize the bargain of your faith ,  i do beseech you ,  even at that time i may be married too .
therefore let’s follow .
i do not ,  sir .
if he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil ,  i had rather he should shrive me than wive me .
asses are made to bear ,  and so are you .
now shall you see the other .
i could say she were worse .
i do forget.
let us now stay and see it .
is it they?
sir ,  good success .
farewell !
how ,  my pretty york ?
had i been any god of power ,  i would have sunk the sea within the earth or ere it should the good ship so have swallowed and the fraughting souls within her .
fairies, be gone, and be all ways away.
rest you merry !
i know no ways to mince it in love ,  but directly to say ,   “ i love you .  ”  then if you urge me farther than to say ,   “ do you ,  in faith ?  ”  i wear out my suit .
enjoy the honey - heavy dew of slumber; thou hast no figures nor no fantasies ,  which busy care draws in the brains of men; therefore thou sleep'st so sound .
why ,  for that too .
wherefore !
cassio ,  i love thee; but never more be officer of mine .
i do suspect i have done some offense that seems disgracious in the city’s eye ,  and that you come to reprehend my ignorance .
thou ,  like an exorcist ,  hast conjured up my mortified spirit .
hag-seed, hence!
macbeth is ripe for shaking ,  and the powers above put on their instruments .
and thou must stand by too ,  and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure !
my name’s macbeth .
this is most certain that i shall deliver: mark antony is every hour in rome expected .
therefore love moderately .
that book in many's eyes doth share the glory, that in gold clasps locks in the golden story; so shall you share all that he doth possess, by having him making yourself no less.
myself have letters of the selfsame tenor .
be silent .
let me beseech your grace not to do so .
have you not set mine honor at the stake ,  and baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts that tyrannous heart can think ?
it must be so ,  for miracles are ceased ,  and therefore we must needs admit the means how things are perfected .
what ?
as shafalus to procrus ,  i to you .
o bosom black as death !
o husband !
ay ,  truly ,  for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness .
then, if we lose this battle, you are contented to be led in triumph thorough the streets of rome?
they that add ,  moreover ,  he’s drunk nightly in your company .
before you can say ‘come’ and ‘go,’ and breathe twice and cry ‘so, so,’ each one, tripping on his toe will be here with mop and mow.
o, how i love thee!
if it please you to dine with us.
do i speak you fair?
think you i am no stronger than my sex ,  being so father'd and so husbanded ?
my father charged you in his will to give me good education .
this is the very false gallop of verses .
either my eyesight fails ,  or thou look’st pale .
there are more things in heaven and earth, horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
my name is proculeius .
oh ,  that estates ,  degrees and offices were not derived corruptly ,  and that clear honor were purchased by the merit of the wearer !
what a thrice - double ass was i ,  to take this drunkard for a god and worship this dull fool !
yet ,  coming from him ,  that great med’cine hath with his tinct gilded thee .
and come you now with  “ knocking at the gate ”  ?
truly ,  a peck of provender .
it is a creature that dotes on cassio ,  as 'tis the strumpet's plague to beguile many and be beguiled by one .
i thank my noble lord.
haply the seas, and countries different, with variable objects shall expel this something-settled matter in his heart, whereon his brains still beating puts him thus from fashion of himself.
it seems that you scorn me .
now fare you well ,  good sir .
they have tied me to a stake .
fare you well, my liege.
i will only be bold with benedick for his company ,  for from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot he is all mirth .
come on .
ay, so i fear; the more is my unrest.
go ,  begone .
run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames with bisson rheum; a clout upon that head where late the diadem stood, and for a robe, about her lank and all o'erteemed loins, a blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up— who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd 'gainst fortune's state would treason have pronounced.
the name of cassius honors this corruption ,  and chastisement doth therefore hide his head .
how now ?
hail !
the lord protect him from that kingly title !
i am glad to see your highness .
come you ,  sir .
there on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
i warrant you .
a piece of him.
i fear ’tis choleric .
the foul’st best fits my latter part of life .
why ,  he drinks you with facility your dane dead drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your almain; he gives your hollander a vomit ere the next pottle can be filled .
i say ,  away !
you will be schoolmaster and undertake the teaching of the maid: that’s your device .
take the hint which my despair proclaims .
attend those men our pleasure ?
oh ,  that i were a glove upon that hand that i might touch that cheek !
no ,  let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp ,  and crook the pregnant hinges of the knee where thrift may follow fawning .
abhorred villain !
pray ,  have you not a daughter called katherina ,  fair and virtuous ?
i'll put another question to thee .
if it were now to die ,  'twere now to be most happy; for i fear my soul hath her content so absolute that not another comfort like to this succeeds in unknown fate .
i humbly thank you, sir.
a laughter .
why, thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.
so shalt thou show me friendship .
yet i beseech you ,  if you think fit ,  or that it may be done ,  give me advantage of some brief discourse with desdemona alone .
let me see 'em .
it is my lady; o ,  it is my love !
therefore the dukes of berri and of brittany ,  of brabant and of orléans ,  shall make forth ,  and you ,  prince dauphin ,  with all swift dispatch ,  to line and new - repair our towns of war with men of courage and with means defendant .
if you outstay the time ,  upon mine honor and in the greatness of my word ,  you die .
so quick bright things come to confusion .
o proud death ,  what feast is toward in thine eternal cell ,  that thou so many princes at a shot so bloodily hast struck ?
what is he that you ask for ,  niece ?
this is the truth, or let benvolio die.
to ireland, i; our separated fortune shall keep us both the safer.
who's there ?
art thou contented ,  jew ?
how far into the morning is it ,  lords ?
my brother and thy uncle, called antonio— i pray thee mark me, that a brother should be so perfidious—he whom next thyself of all the world i loved, and to him put the manage of my state; as at that time through all the signories it was the first, and prospero the prime duke, being so reputed in dignity, and for the liberal arts without a parallel; those being all my study, the government i cast upon my brother, and to my state grew stranger, being transported and rapt in secret studies.
come, a passionate speech.
this way ,  my lord .
indeed ,  my lord ,  you made me believe so .
tom ,  away !
it is not yet near day .
therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion .
ay ,  sir ,  they be ready .
he was quick mettle when he went to school .
he hath been out nine years ,  and away he shall again .
o noble emperor ,  do not fight by sea !
a truant disposition ,  good my lord .
thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe .
but if it be a sin to covet honor ,  i am the most offending soul alive .
what’s that to thee ?
where is the beauteous majesty of denmark ?
an unauthorized kiss !
and then the boy ,  his clerk ,  that took some pains in writing ,  he begged mine .
your royal father's murdered .
but she ,  being mortal ,  of that boy did die; and for her sake do i rear up her boy; and for her sake i will not part with him .
where’s my son edmund ?
and ,  being men ,  bearing the will of caesar ,  it will inflame you ,  it will make you mad .
away, you ethiope!
remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
drown'd, drown'd.
who did strike out the light ?
you kiss by th’ book.
messala !
i was the more deceived .
so shines a good deed in a naughty world.
when was it she last walked ?
what, art thou hurt?
where's this girl?
why ,  how now ,  charmian ?
why ,  all these should be in the lantern; for all these are in the moon .
i came hither to tell you; and ,  circumstances shortened ,  for she has been too long a - talking of ,  the lady is disloyal .
harp on it still shall i till heart - strings break .
twas never merry world since lowly feigning was call’d compliment .
come ,  sit thee down upon this flowery bed ,  while i thy amiable cheeks do coy ,  and stick musk - roses in thy sleek smooth head ,  and kiss thy fair large ears ,  my gentle joy .
he was but a fool that brought my answer back.
but come ,  your bergomask; let your epilogue alone .
and here i stand ,  both to impeach and purge ,  myself condemnèd and myself excused .
god's my life ,  stolen hence ,  and left me asleep !
then both ,  or one ,  or anything thou wilt .
come ,  mistress ,  you must tell's another tale .
take you some company ,  and away to horse .
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven, having some business, do entreat her eyes to twinkle in their spheres till they return.
to alonso] therefore ,  my lord , — [to alonso] therefore ,  my lord , — [to sebastian] fie ,  what a spendthrift is he of his [to sebastian] fie ,  what a spendthrift is he of his tongue !
thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
to answer that ,  i should confess to you .
shall we hear from you ,  catesby ,  ere we sleep ?
it is no mean happiness ,  therefore ,  to be seated in the mean; superfluity comes sooner by white hairs ,  but competency lives longer .
yet here's a spot .
lend thine ear .
lady ,  amen .
o comfortable friar !
but you and i and honest casca ,  we have the falling sickness .
she shall be buried by her antony .
let this fellow be nothing of our strife .
gaoler, look to him.
be thou assur'd ,  if words be made of breath ,  and breath of life ,  i have no life to breathe what thou hast said to me .
the cease of majesty dies not alone ,  but ,  like a gulf ,  doth draw what’s near it with it .
his present and your pains we thank you for .
there was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it .
our preparation stands in expectation of them .
o setebos ,  these be brave spirits indeed !
i know my hour is come .
humh !
and look ,  where publius is come to fetch me .
why the devil came you between us ?
oh ,  fie !
o ,  here's a wit of cheverel ,  that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad !
what ,  man ,  courage yet !
what ,  with lysander ?
he hath refused it in the open court .
a quarrel ,  ho ,  already !
farewell, dear father.
art thou afeard to be the same in thine own act and valor as thou art in desire ?
but who comes here?
ay ,  to me .
i must attend the duke at dinner .
wine loved i deeply ,  dice dearly ,  and in woman outparamoured the turk .
juliet, on thursday early will i rouse ye.
will you be ready ?
did cicero say anything ?
can he be angry ?
macbeth !
this deed will be well welcome to lorenzo.
she returns this ring to you ,  sir .
seek !
he would have deserved it .
thou canst not teach me to forget.
you are in the right .
which way ran he that kill'd mercutio?
now entertain conjecture of a time when creeping murmur and the poring dark fills the wide vessel of the universe .
no ,  no ,  he is dead; go to thy deathbed; he never will come again .
truly, sir, to wear out their shoes, to get myself into more work.
know you him ?
what serious contemplation are you in ?
i pray you ,  sir ,  my ring or else the chain .
kind gentlemen ,  your pains are register'd where every day i turn the leaf to read them .
do it ,  england; for like the hectic in my blood he rages ,  and thou must cure me .
say you ?
go, captain, from me greet the danish king.
how came that widow in ?
with mine officer!
but one fiend at a time ,  i’ll fight their legions o'er .
bid her come hither .
why ask you?
or shall i say her uncle ?
thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er i nurs'd.
poor man !
her eye in heaven would through the airy region stream so bright that birds would sing and think it were not night .
thus die i ,  thus ,  thus ,  thus .
but there's no heed to be taken of them; if caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would have done no less.
this torture should be roared in dismal hell .
ere he take ship for france ,  and in southampton .
you sunburnt sicklemen, of august weary, come hither from the furrow and be merry; make holiday, your rye-straw hats put on, and these fresh nymphs encounter every one in country footing.
my master's .
well struck !
when they will not give a dolt to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead indian.
i have done ,  my lord .
i'll stay no longer question.
give me audience ,  good madam .
be assured of this ,  that the magnifico is much beloved ,  and hath in his effect a voice potential as double as the duke's .
where ,  where ,  messala ,  doth his body lie ?
how now ,  friend eros !
how comes it?
i am the very man— i’ll see that straight .
and ,  hark !
who knows the lord protector’s mind herein ?
let me be resolved.
while grace is saying ,  hood mine eyes thus with my hat ,  and sigh and say ,   “ amen ” — use all the observance of civility like one well studied in a sad ostent to please his grandam ,  never trust me more .
you shall be king.
the boy was the very staff of my age ,  my very prop .
methinks i do .
ill spirit ,  i would hold more talk with thee .
buzz, buzz!
my husband?
and do you, gratiano, mean good faith?
and ere i take this charm from off her sight, as i can take it with another herb, i'll make her render up her page to me.
so all .
o heavenly mingle !
since he went into france i have been in continual practice .
thou hast taken against me a most just exception ,  but yet i protest i have dealt most directly in thy affair .
for now ,  this fearful night ,  there is no stir or walking in the streets ,  and the complexion of the element in favor's like the work we have in hand ,  most bloody ,  fiery ,  and most terrible .
what ,  with worms and flies ?
a rhyme i learn'd even now of one i danc'd withal.
and after that, he came thus sad away?
why prat’st thou to thyself and answer’st not ?
o single-sold jest, solely singular for the singleness!
you are a councilor .
ding ,  dong ,  bell .
you are dull ,  casca ,  and those sparks of life that should be in a roman you do want ,  or else you use not .
well ,  i conceive .
i durst not !
where is thy luster now ?
no ,  trust me ,  sir ,  nor i .  i am sure thou dost .
away to heaven respective lenity ,  and fire - ey'd fury be my conduct now !
no die ,  but an ace ,  for him; for he is but one .
o thou vile king, give me my father!
not one, my lord.
come ,  we’ll to sleep .
i do beseech you .
lips ,  do not move; no man must know .  ”
ay ,  for the state ,  not for antonio .
what is the time o'th’ day?
dost thou in conscience think—tell me ,  emilia— that there be women do abuse their husbands in such gross kind ?
knock ,  knock !
i gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift .
uncle ,  your grace knows how to bear with him .
i will bestow a breakfast to make you friends; and we’ll be all three sworn brothers to france .
by this scimitar,— that slew the sophy, and a persian prince, that won three fields of sultan solyman,— i would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look, outbrave the heart most daring on the earth, pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear, yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey, to win thee, lady.
cambio .
a friend should bear his friend's infirmities ,  but brutus makes mine greater than they are .
your hands than mine are quicker for a fray; my legs are longer though, to run away.
i’ll have no halves .
but ,  sir ,  forgive me ,  since my becomings kill me when they do not eye well to you .
i long with all my heart to see the prince .
calls my lord ?
as you on him ,  demetrius dote on you !
a very gentle beast, and of a good conscience.
wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being but half a fish and half a monster?
why ,  i have eat none yet .
he is about the house .
wherefore was i to this keen mockery born?
if thou more murmur'st ,  i will rend an oak ,  and peg thee in his knotty entrails till thou hast howled away twelve winters .
i will be angry .
drink ,  servant - monster ,  when i bid thee .
but if the cause be not good ,  the king himself hath a heavy reckoning to make ,  when all those legs and arms and heads ,  chopped off in a battle ,  shall join together at the latter day ,  and cry all ,   “ we died at such a place ,  ”  some swearing ,  some crying for a surgeon ,  some upon their wives left poor behind them ,  some upon the debts they owe ,  some upon their children rawly left .
hold your peace .
i prithee ,  when thou seest that act afoot ,  even with the very comment of thy soul observe my uncle .
the handkerchief !
i have heard it said so.
tis so .
her blush is guiltiness ,  not modesty .
no ,  sir .
i therefore vouch again that with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood or with some dram ,  conjured to this effect ,  he wrought upon her .
let pity not be believed .  ”  there she shook the holy water from her heavenly eyes ,  and clamor moistened .
he’s dead .
i am sure you both of you remember me .
ay ,  and truly ,  you were best .
the gods reward your kindness !
o ,  i cry you mercy !
come ,  casca ,  you and i will yet ere day see brutus at his house .
a very ribbon in the cap of youth, yet needful too; for youth no less becomes the light and careless livery that it wears than settled age his sables and his weeds, importing health and graveness.
all schooldays' friendship ,  childhood innocence ?
drown'd!
i denied you not .
their names are pricked .
as whence the sun ’gins his reflection shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break, so from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come discomfort swells.
here ,  sir !
do you note me ?
he is not yet arrived; nor know i aught but that he's well and will be shortly here .
i never heard so musical a discord ,  such sweet thunder .
do you consent we shall acquaint him with it, as needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
come now, a roundel and a fairy song; then, for the third part of a minute, hence: some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds; some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings, to make my small elves coats; and some keep back the clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders at our quaint spirits.
why should she write to edmund ?
thou liest ,  malignant thing !
pardon this fault ,  and by my soul i swear i never more will break an oath with thee .
stood the state so ?
wife, children, servants, all that could be found.
it shall be so .
o noble caesar !
and then ,  sir ,  does he this—he does—what was i about to say ?
i found it in my chamber .
this ,  and saint george to boot—what think’st thou ,  norfolk ?
give you good morrow .
the cockerel .
or shall i think in silver she's immur'd ,  being ten times undervalued to tried gold ?
thanks ,  good egeus .
welcome ,  publius .
as thick as hail came post with post ,  and every one did bear thy praises in his kingdom's great defense ,  and pour'd them down before him .
tut ,  a toy !
it will not speak; then will i follow it .
but you’ll lie like dogs ,  and yet say nothing neither .
who is conductor of his people ?
thrice the brinded cat hath mewed .
the messengers from our sister and the king .
and what’s her history ?
for michael cassio ,  i dare be sworn i think that he is honest .
cast thy humble slough ,  ”  says she .
let's take leave of him .
marry ,  heaven forbid !
and what wilt thou do—beg when that is spent ?
our reasons are so full of good regard that were you, antony, the son of caesar, you should be satisfied.
for, coming thence, my son is lost, and, in my rate, she too, who is so far from italy removed i ne'er again shall see her.
sir ,  i will answer any thing .
who comes here ?
did you confer with him ?
where is she ?
tis the curse of service .
what wilt thou do?
let me go with him .
what foul play had we that we came from thence ?
my lord ,  you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king .
this wedding day perhaps is but prolonged .
i prithee ,  call him back .
what is thisbe ?
it seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place, to be produced—as, if i stay, i shall— against the moor.
ambition should be made of sterner stuff .
tis since the nuptial of lucentio ,  come pentecost as quickly as it will ,  some five - and - twenty years ,  and then we mask'd .
good sister ,  let us dine and never fret .
to answer by the method ,  in the first of his heart .
down with the montagues !
i know the good king and queen have sent for you.
does she so ?
he hath, my lord; but be you well assured, no more than he'll unswear.
spoke like an officer !
dost thou forget from what a torment i did free thee?
come forth .
what wilt thou do ?
what, rome?
is not your lord honorable without marriage ?
thou speak'st it well.
well ,  masters ,  we hear our charge .
i know not what you mean by that ,  but i am sure caesar fell down .
i have o'ershot myself to tell you of it .
better i were distract— so should my thoughts be severed from my griefs ,  and woes by wrong imaginations lose the knowledge of themselves .
any man that can write may answer a letter.
you have taken it wiselier than i meant you should .
durst thou have look'd upon him being awake ,  and hast thou kill'd him sleeping ?
good my lord ,  be quiet .
let not the nurse lie with thee in thy chamber .
i shall desire you of more acquaintance ,  good master cobweb .
hear all, all see, and like her most whose merit most shall be; which, amongst view of many, mine, being one, may stand in number, though in reck'ning none.
fare you well.
farewell content !
if i have killed the issue of your womb ,  to quicken your increase i will beget mine issue of your blood upon your daughter .
i think his soul is in hell ,  madonna .
never at quiet .
now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber.
i hate him for he is a christian: but more, for that, in low simplicity, he lends out money gratis, and brings down the rate of usance here with us in venice.
if you would conjure in her ,  you must make a circle; if conjure up love in her in his true likeness ,  he must appear naked and blind .
to ariel] go, charge my goblins that they grind their [to ariel] go, charge my goblins that they grind their joints with dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews, with aged cramps, and more pinch-spotted make them than pard or cat o'mountain.
he jests at scars that never felt a wound .
is caesar yet gone to the capitol ?
i pray thee ,  peace .
for no man, sir.
i cannot think you are my son.
do you consent we shall acquaint him with it ,  as needful in our loves ,  fitting our duty ?
oh ,  that record is lively in my soul !
but it sufficeth that the day will end ,  and then the end is known . —come ,  ho !
no ,  kate ?
besides, it were a mock apt to be render'd, for some one to say “break up the senate till another time, when caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams.” if caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper “lo, caesar is afraid”?
speak ,  for my heart is full .
be you and i behind an arras then; mark the encounter .
o stephano ,  two neapolitans scaped !
i do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that hunts, but one that fills up the cry.
i'll charm the air to give a sound, while you perform your antic round, that this great king may kindly say our duties did his welcome pay.
good morrow ,  brutus .
not a jot, not a jot.
through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind .
you are too indulgent .
upon my knees, what doth your speech import?
unlawfully?
the best news is that we have safely found our king and company .
good my lord ,  vouchsafe me a word with you .
fare thee well at once.
you may be pleased to catch at mine intent by what did here befall me .
but if you do refuse to marry me ,  you’ll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd ?
it was the lark, the herald of the morn; no nightingale.
poor ropes, you are beguil'd, both you and i, for romeo is exil'd.
it is myself i mean, in whom i know all the particulars of vice so grafted that, when they shall be open'd, black macbeth will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state esteem him as a lamb, being compared with my confineless harms.
o, i am out of breath in this fond chase!
what need one ?
this servitude makes you to keep unwed .
you or any man living may be drunk at some time ,  man .
shame come to romeo!
who does he accuse ?
out, loathed medicine!
one knocks .
be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath, and breath of life, i have no life to breathe what thou hast said to me.
thou didst usurp my place ,  and dost thou not usurp the just proportion of my sorrow ?
they are ,  my lord .
fare thee well awhile .
come ,  some music !
the triplex ,  sir ,  is a good tripping measure ,  or the bells of saint bennet ,  sir ,  may put you in mind—one ,  two ,  three .
is ’t possible that on so little acquaintance you should like her ?
farewell ,  fair cruelty .
so are you ,  sweet ,  even in the lovely garnish of a boy .
pray, chuck, come hither.
sir ,  would she give you so much of her lips as of her tongue she oft bestows on me ,  you'ld have enough .
i would i were thy bird.
well ,  you are a rare parrot - teacher .
good gentlemen ,  look fresh and merrily .
i will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me i am a drunkard !
our time does call upon ’s .
this is an aspic’s trail ,  and these fig leaves have slime upon them ,  such as th’ aspic leaves upon the caves of nile .
good madam ,  be not angry with the child .
we'll wait upon you .
come, come, the cause.
and is it thus ?
the people in the street cry ‘romeo,’ some ‘juliet,’ and some ‘paris’; and all run, with open outcry, toward our monument.
which be the malefactors ?
did you by indirect and forced courses subdue and poison this young maid's affections?
these be good humors .
though that his joy be joy, yet throw such changes of vexation on't as it may lose some color.
i would fain prove so .
o ,  these men ,  these men !
what says romeo ?
well ,  i am sorry for your niece .
he never did harm that i heard of .
sir ,  you shall understand what hath befall'n ,  which ,  as i think ,  you know not .
good night .
no more of drowning ,  do you hear ?
look thou but sweet ,  and i am proof against their enmity .
come, tears, confound; out, sword, and wound the pap of pyramus; ay, that left pap, where heart doth hop.
o comfortable friar!
there is a cliff ,  whose high and bending head looks fearfully in the confinèd deep .
hush and be mute ,  or else our spell is marred .
your ear is good.
some food we had ,  and some fresh water ,  that a noble neapolitan ,  gonzalo ,  out of his charity , —who being then appointed master of this design , —did give us; with rich garments ,  linens ,  stuffs ,  and necessaries ,  which since have steaded much; so ,  of his gentelness knowing i loved my books ,  he furnished me from mine own library with volumes that i prize above my dukedom .
and then ,  of so gentle a condition !
bring me to the test, and i the matter will reword; which madness would gambol from.
ha ,  ha .
yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
madam ?
ass ,  i doubt not .
no, my lord; rather with choler.
my husband ?
i know it is the sun that shines so bright .
what news among the merchants ?
but for a satisfaction of my thought; no further harm.
ask for me to - morrow ,  and you shall find me a grave man .
i did ,  my lord ,  and i have reason for it .
i fear there will a worse come in his place .
blow, wind!
tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen .
now could i drink hot blood, and do such bitter business as the day would quake to look on.
by heaven, i saw my handkerchief in ‘s hand.
the strangers all are gone .
let us rather hold fast the mortal sword and ,  like good men ,  bestride our downfall'n birthdom .
a ship you sent me to ,  to hire waftage .
come ,  come ,  thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in italy ,  and as soon moved to be moody ,  and as soon moody to be moved .
have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my face ?
ride you this afternoon ?
god's bread!
is't gone ?
give me that boy ,  and i will go with thee .
but this most foul ,  strange and unnatural .
where is your son?
o, say!
god be wi' you .
give me your hand first.
answer my life my judgment ,  thy youngest daughter does not love thee least ,  nor are those empty - hearted whose low sound reverbs no hollowness .
ah ,  my poor princes !
sweet montague, be true.
i prithee ,  who ?
it makes me mad .
i’ll set her on .
bring him through the bands .
to this ,  add defiance ,  and tell him ,  for conclusion ,  he hath betrayed his followers ,  whose condemnation is pronounced .  ”  so far my king and master; so much my office .
he sees thee not .
tis well blown ,  lads .
go tell him of this .
for he is sure i'th’ island.
come hither ,  neighbor seacole .
i cannot tell .
o lady ,  speak again !
the elements be kind to thee and make thy spirits all of comfort !
oh ,  my fortunes have corrupted honest men !
a fair name .
i find thee apt; and duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed that roots itself in ease on lethe wharf ,  wouldst thou not stir in this .
fie, fie!
therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me .
come ,  come ,  you answer with an idle tongue .
you have said ,  but whether wisely or no ,  let the forest judge .
th' abuse of greatness is when it disjoins remorse from power .
in his lawless fit ,  behind the arras hearing something stir ,  whips out his rapier ,  cries 'a rat ,  a rat !
peace !
that death's unnatural that kills for loving .
but how long fairly shall her sweet life last ?
she's the worse for all this.
i do begin to have bloody thoughts .
whither to supper ?
my voice is now the king’s ,  my looks mine own .
as he shall smile, othello shall go mad; and his unbookish jealousy must construe poor cassio's smiles, gestures, and light behavior, quite in the wrong.
ay ,  and wall too .
i humbly thank you ,  sir .
i will do ’t .
the servants of the duke and my lieutenant ?
for those of old, and the late dignities heap'd up to them, we rest your hermits.
my words fly up ,  my thoughts remain below .
run to the capitol, and nothing else?
caesar ,  all hail !
o, pardon, sir, it doth, and yon grey lines that fret the clouds are messengers of day.
believe none of us .
make me to see't; or at the least so prove it, that the probation bear no hinge nor loop to hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life!
what judgment shall i dread, doing no wrong?
i will tell you .
and so ,  adieu .
i will be satisfied .
have i not reason ,  beldams as you are ,  saucy and overbold ?
i am not of many words ,  but i thank you .
that is because the traitor murderer lives .
thieves !
emilia ,  run you to the citadel ,  and tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd !
hark ye ,  your romeo will be here at night .
warrant thee ,  my man’s as true as steel .
hast stol'n it from her?
no ,  it is casca ,  one incorporate to our attempts .
content .
saint valentine is past; begin these wood - birds but to couple now ?
tis a chough; but ,  as i say ,  spacious in the pos -  session of dirt .
the worthy thane of ross .
there's wood enough within.
the sun will not be seen today .
hark ,  hark !
on ,  lusty gentlemen .
prithee ,  be not angry .
noses, ears, and lips.
nay, i can gleek upon occasion.
and then the justice ,  in fair round belly with good capon lined ,  with eyes severe and beard of formal cut ,  full of wise saws and modern instances; and so he plays his part .
he receives comfort like cold porridge.
o strange !
why ,  look you there !
o, she will sing the savageness out of a bear.
my lord ,  do as you please; but ,  if you hold it fit ,  after the play ,  let his queen mother all alone entreat him to show his grief .
praised be god ,  and not our strength ,  for it !
how now ,  my lord ?
i have been your tenant and your father’s tenant these fourscore years .
still it cried ,   “ sleep no more !  ”  to all the house .
then confess what treason there is mingled with your love.
but till this afternoon his passion ne'er brake into extremity of rage .
since they did plot the means that dusky dis my daughter got, her and her blind boy's scandaled company i have forsworn.
good night .
set me where you stand .
let the galled jade winch; our withers are unwrung.
then be thou jocund .
where's publius ?
come ,  come ,  away .
you are a fool .
and make him with fair aegle break his faith, with ariadne and antiopa?
let me see one.
who maintains 'em?
great thing of us forgot ! — speak ,  edmund ,  where’s the king ?
yes ,  ’tis emilia . — 'tis like she comes to speak of cassio’s death ,  the noise was high .
a plague o’ both your houses !
give us the place alone .
where’s thy conscience now ?
the taper burneth in your closet ,  sir .
speak .
i am too bold; 'tis not to me she speaks .
but where was this ?
great mark antony is now a widower .
get thee to a nunnery !
moth!
that’s a degree to love .
that of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker; each minute teems a new one .
your worship was wont to tell me, i could do nothing without bidding.
under what title shall i woo for thee ,  that god ,  the law ,  my honor and her love can make seem pleasing to her tender years ?
let us not burden our remembrances with a heaviness that’s gone .
if i can catch him once upon the hip ,  i will feed fat the ancient grudge i bear him .
there’s my cap .
my lord?
my brother hath a daughter ,  almost the copy of my child that’s dead ,  and she alone is heir to both of us .
i confess the cape .
o vassal !
ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late; i'll to my rest.
wouldst thou aught with me ?
paddock calls.
what say you ,  uncle ?
the old man and his people cannot be well bestowed .
true ,  noble prince .
it must needs be of subtle ,  tender ,  and delicate temperance .
here comes one o' the parings .
but come ,  i’ll tell thee all my whole device when i am in my coach ,  which stays for us at the park gate .
what's he that now is going out of door?
gentlemen, you are welcome to elsinore.
what news ?
here thought they to have done some wanton charm upon this man and miad, whose vows are that no bed-right shall be paid till hymen's torch be lighted—but in vain.
why should that name be sounded more than yours ?
within my sword’s length set him; if he ’scape ,  heaven forgive him too .
your father was ever virtuous; and holy men at their death have good inspirations; therefore, the lottery that he hath devised in these three chests, of gold, silver, and lead, (whereof who chooses his meaning chooses you,) will, no doubt, never be chosen by any rightly, but one who you shall rightly love.
tis deeply sworn .
o banquo ,  banquo !
may not one speak ?
what ,  pindarus !
i pity thy complaining .
i am glad on't.
benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
night's candles are burnt out ,  and jocund day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops .
you gave us the counterfeit fairly last night.
alas ,  how shall this bloody deed be answer'd ?
it is offended.
let him bless thee too .
here the street is narrow, the throng that follows caesar at the heels, of senators, of praetors, common suitors, will crowd a feeble man almost to death.
swagger ?
o, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
we'll hear the will .
no, cassius, no.
to adrian] but the rarity of it is ,  which is indeed [to adrian] but the rarity of it is ,  which is indeed almost beyond credit— [to antonio] as many vouched rarities are .
i know thou canst not choose .
whose house ?
you jig and amble ,  and you lisp ,  you nickname god’s creatures and make your wantonness your ignorance .
so shall you hear of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts; of accidental judgments, casual slaughters; of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause; and, in this upshot, purposes mistook fall'n on the inventors' heads.
madam ?
i am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor .
know’st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile ?
how does lieutenant cassio ?
when was it she last walked ?
speak the word along .
nay ,  hear him .
most certain .
nay ,  let them go ,  a couple of quiet ones .
the tears have got small victory by that ,  for it was bad enough before their spite .
bring me to octavius .
you are unkind ,  demetrius .
the noise they make will cause demetrius to awake.
you were sent for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks ,  which your modesties have not craft enough to colour .
let him alone; i'll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
am not i hermia ?
some twenty of them fought in this black strife, and all those twenty could but kill one life.
tis e'en so .
i ,  as i may—that which i would i cannot , — with best advantage will deceive the time ,  and aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms .
dost thou not suspect my years ?
be thou my witness that ,  against my will ,  as pompey was ,  am i compell'd to set upon one battle all our liberties .
abhorrèd slave ,  which any print of goodness wilt not take ,  being capable of all ill !
ross: what sights ,  my lord ?
what lady's that ,  which doth enrich the hand of yonder knight ?
well, i may chance to see you, for i would very fain speak with you.
demetrius, i will keep my word with thee.
what say you then to falconbridge ,  the young baron of england ?
romeo, will you come to your father's?
abide within .
wast born i' th' forest here ?
why the king of france is so suddenly gone back know you the reason ?
o ,  for my beads !
what committed.
o sweet bully bottom !
very well ,  my lord .
i pray you tell me your remedy .
you all did see that on the lupercal i thrice presented him a kingly crown ,  which he did thrice refuse .
what cheer ,  my love ? — demetrius and egeus ,  go along .
meet me and gratiano, at gratiano's lodging some hour hence.
you were to blame ,  i must be plain with you ,  to part so slightly with your wife’s first gift ,  a thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger and so riveted with faith unto your flesh .
i have thee not ,  and yet i see thee still .
why had i not with charitable hand took up a beggar’s issue at my gates ,  who ,  smirchèd thus ,  and mired with infamy ,  i might have said ,   “ no part of it is mine; this shame derives itself from unknown loins ”  ?
the merchandise which thou hast brought from rome are all too dear for me .
if you offend him ,  i for him defy you .
what news among the merchants?
and but one word with one of us?
where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear; where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
but she ,  your subject ,  loathes such sovereignty .
i am not sick, if brutus have in hand any exploit worthy the name of honor.
in himself he is; but in this kind ,  wanting your father's voice ,  the other must be held the worthier .
o brave new world ,  that has such people in ’t !
tis done already ,  and the messenger gone .
and this cuff was but to knock at your ear and beseech list'ning .
she is a virtuous and a reverend lady .
i doubt some danger does approach you nearly.
here’s drink .
then will i come to my mother by and by .
o stephano, two neapolitans scaped!
so says the prince and my new - trothèd lord .
he hath lost his fellows and strays about to find 'em .
but i have spoke with one that saw him die, who did report that very frankly he confess'd his treasons, implored your highness’ pardon, and set forth a deep repentance.
that ever holds .
dismiss me.
an thou make minstrels of us ,  look to hear nothing but discords .
with what ,  i' the name of god ?
he would not have spoke such a word .
not so ,  sir ,  neither; i know my duty .
in sooth ,  you are to blame .
go in ,  and weep not .
when didst thou sleep when such a deed was done ?
my comfort is that old age ,  that ill layer - up of beauty ,  can do no more spoil upon my face .
there's another.
there thou shouldst be; by this great clatter ,  one of the greatest note seems bruited .
iago ?
could not a worm ,  an adder ,  do so much ?
therefore ,  as i am bound ,  receive it from me .
give him this money and these notes ,  reynaldo .
let’s follow .
peace ,  i have done .
what says he of our marriage?
o ,  banish me ,  my lord ,  but kill me not !
sister ,  it is not a little i have to say of what most nearly appertains to us both .
if you say so, i hope you will not kill me.
i know not if ’t be true ,  but i ,  for mere suspicion in that kind ,  will do as if for surety .
tis a blushing ,  shamefaced spirit that mutinies in a man’s bosom .
your honor calls you hence .
thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
not in a grave ,  to lay one in ,  another out to have .
at such a time i'll loose my daughter to him .
your overkindness doth wring tears from me .
he lays it on .
what need’st thou run so many mile about when thou mayst tell thy tale the nearest way ?
my affections are then most humble .
use them after your own honour and dignity.
tell the hot duke that lear— no ,  but not yet .
i would be sorry ,  sir ,  but the fool should be as oft with your master as with my mistress: i think i saw your wisdom there .
that i am guiltless of your father's death ,  and am most sensibly in grief for it ,  it shall as level to your judgment pierce as day does to your eye .
we should have met you by sea and land ,  supplying every stage with an augmented greeting .
i go ,  i go .
this jack of caesar’s shall bear us an errand to him .
ay, and wisely.
o villain !
holy saint francis !
i’ll call upon you ere you go to bed and tell you what i know .
it is no matter .
good peter ,  to hide her face; for her fan's the fairer face of the two .
why ,  man ,  he doth bestride the narrow world like a colossus ,  and we petty men walk under his huge legs and peep about to find ourselves dishonorable graves .
give me mine armor .
i perhaps speak this before a willing bondman; then i know my answer must be made.
you are a counsellor; if you can command these elements to silence ,  and work the peace of the present ,  we will not hand a rope more; use your authority .
tomorrow ,  if you please to speak with me ,  i will come home to you ,  or ,  if you will ,  come home to me and i will wait for you .
such duty as the subject owes the prince ,  even such a woman oweth to her husband .
prithee ,  listen well .
if this be so ,  why blame you me to love you ?
and if it sort not well ,  you may conceal her ,  as best befits her wounded reputation ,  in some reclusive and religious life ,  out of all eyes ,  tongues ,  minds ,  and injuries .
here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear blasting his wholesome brother.
it cannot be .
it was great ignorance ,  gloucester’s eyes being out ,  to let him live .
well ,  and well am like to do ,  for i perceive ,  four feasts are toward .
to show our simple skill, that is the true beginning of our end.
my husband !
where is metellus cimber ?
i had rather than forty pound i were at home .
give me,” quoth i.
are you sure of that ?
here’s one ,  a friend ,  and one that knows you well .
let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests; i bear a charmèd life ,  which must not yield to one of woman born .
do you see nothing there?
the worthy thane of ross.
but while i say one prayer!
not that adam that kept the paradise ,  but that adam that keeps the prison; he that goes in the calf’s skin that was killed for the prodigal; he that came behind you ,  sir ,  like an evil angel ,  and bid you forsake your liberty .
if from the field i shall return once more to kiss these lips ,  i will appear in blood .
would'st thou withdraw it ?
what, out of hearing?
maid’s mild behavior and sobriety .
even those you were wont to take such delight in, the tragedians of the city.
knock knock knock ,  knock !
i swear i’ll cuff you if you strike again .
madam, with all my heart, i shall obey you in all fair commands.
all which we pine for now .
thou art like one of those fellows that ,  when he enters the confines of a tavern ,  claps me his sword upon the table and says  “ god send me no need of thee !  ”  and ,  by the operation of the second cup ,  draws it on the drawer when indeed there is no need .
calls my lord ?
thursday is near; lay hand on heart ,  advise: an you be mine ,  i'll give you to my friend; an you be not ,  hang ,  beg ,  starve ,  die in the streets ,  for ,  by my soul ,  i'll ne'er acknowledge thee ,  nor what is mine shall never do thee good .
good night ,  penthesilea .
i never saw the chain ,  so help me heaven ,  and this is false you burden me withal .
i have a suit to you .
a daughter?
be gone !
wilt thou tell a monstrous lie ,  being but half a fish and half a monster ?
your sister's drown'd, laertes.
and for mine own part, i durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving the bad air.
what ,  all my pretty chickens and their dam at one fell swoop ?
stay till i have read the letter .
her only fault ,  and that is faults enough ,  is that she is intolerable curst ,  and shrewd and froward ,  so beyond all measure that ,  were my state far worser than it is ,  i would not wed her for a mine of gold .
faith, i can tell her age unto an hour.
we will hear caesar's will .
how hath your lordship brooked imprisonment ?
nay, i know not.
i scorn you not .
look how he laughs already !
content .
ha !
where is the fellow ?
o iago!
ay, what of that?
a bawd, a bawd, a bawd!
how it did grieve macbeth !
yet hear me speak .
good morrow ,  general .
do not muse at me, my most worthy friends.
not so .
ay.
i will tomorrow ,  and betimes i will ,  to the weird sisters .
no sound, no word?
by janus, i think no.
how ill this taper burns!
you will lose this wager ,  my lord .
here ,  here will i remain with worms that are thy chambermaids .
no more ,  i pray you .
strike alarum ,  drums !
where remains he ?
fly ,  masters !
bear free and patient thoughts .
o blessèd ,  blessèd night !
is there division 'twixt my lord and cassio ?
be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck, till thou applaud the deed.
then must thou needs find out new heaven ,  new earth .
ha !
thyself do grace to them ,  and bring them in .
i see no blood ,  no wound .
i'll court his favours .
this is the woman, but not this the man.
what music?
what thou seest when thou dost wake ,  do it for thy true love take .
swallows have built in cleopatra’s sails their nests .
what ,  ho !
half a share.
so is the fame .
good signiors both, when shall we laugh?
take him for all in all .
i am sorry for thee ,  friend .
you are a lover .
tell me, for more certainty, albeit i'll swear that i do know your tongue.
assume a virtue, if you have it not.
a match !
by my troth ,  it is well said .
i dreamt tonight that i did feast with caesar ,  and things unluckily charge my fantasy .
care keeps his watch in every old man's eye ,  and where care lodges sleep will never lie; but where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain doth couch his limbs ,  there golden sleep doth reign .
and will you give me leave?
hold ,  take these keys ,  and fetch more spices ,  nurse .
come for the third, laertes!
when he is drunk asleep; or in his rage; or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed; at game, a-swearing, or about some act that has no relish of salvation in't then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven, and that his soul may be as damn'd and black as hell, whereto it goes.
then say at once what thou dost know in this .
it is the quality o' th' climate .
my lord, we were sent for.
hail !
i grant i am a woman ,  but withal a woman well - reputed ,  cato’s daughter .
i see this hath a little dash'd your spirits .
he’s coming hither—now ,  i' th' night ,  i' th' haste ,  and regan with him .
whiles i threat ,  he lives .
i believe drink gave thee the lie last night .
what had he done to you ?
ay, my good lord.
leave me ,  iago .
can no prayers pierce thee ?
the sun was not so true unto the day as he to me .
it is a pretty youth—not very pretty— but sure he’s proud—and yet his pride becomes him .
good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start not so wildly from my affair.
what have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
laertes, you shall hear them.
home ,  you idle creatures get you home !
then did they imitate that which i composed to my courser ,  for my horse is my mistress .
there's not a one of them but in his house i keep a servant fee'd.
soft !
i never saw an action of such shame .
of what nature the wrongs are thou hast done him ,  i know not ,  but thy intercepter ,  full of despite ,  bloody as the hunter ,  attends thee at the orchard end .
oh ,  much i fear some ill unthrifty thing .
he that has a house to put ’s head in has a good headpiece .
well ,  sir ,  i thank you .
please you ,  draw near . —louder the music there !
well ,  my good lady .
that’s mercy ,  but too much security .
ha, they pluck out mine eyes!
i knew him, horatio: a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy.
no more than i am well acquitted of .
what villain ,  madam ?
and let the laboring bark climb hills of seas olympus high ,  and duck again as low as hell's from heaven !
and, sir, tonight, i do entreat that we may sup together.
virtue itself turns vice ,  being misapplied ,  and vice sometime's by action dignified .
your children were vexation to your youth ,  but mine shall be a comfort to your age .
my lord and lady ,  it is now our time ,  that have stood by and seen our wishes prosper ,  to cry ,   “ good joy ,  good joy ,  my lord and lady !  ”  my lord bassanio and my gentle lady ,  i wish you all the joy that you can wish ,  for i am sure you can wish none from me .
shall i have the thought to think on this ,  and shall i lack the thought that such a thing bechanced would make me sad ?
i never got him . — hark ,  the duke’s trumpets .
if you desire the spleen ,  and will laugh yourself into stitches ,  follow me .
i pray you ,  then ,  in love and dear alliance ,  let that one article rank with the rest ,  and thereupon give me your daughter .
his son was but a ward two years ago.
the rest will comfort ,  for thy counsel’s sound .
no, not for all the world.
and ,  gentle friends ,  let’s kill him boldly but not wrathfully .
i'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes, and leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.
i know when one is dead and when one lives .
thyself shalt see the act .
marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine.
here’s to thy health .
my lord bassanio, let him have the ring, let his deservings, and my love withal, be valued 'gainst your wife's commandment.
why ,  what should be the fear ?
have you heard any imputation to the contrary ?
well then ,  legitimate edgar ,  i must have your land .
indeed they are disproportion'd; my letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
to who?
this disturbed sky is not to walk in .
is't lost ?
and then ,  as we have ta'en the sacrament ,  we will unite the white rose and the red .
the sight is dismal ,  and our affairs from england come too late .
i'll follow you; i'll lead you about a round, through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier; sometime a horse i'll be, sometime a hound, a hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire; and neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn, like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
weeping] i am a fool [weeping] i am a fool to weep at what i am glad of .
will it please you to see the epilogue ,  or to hear a bergomask dance between two of our company ?
remember it ,  my lord !
we think not so, my lord.
a gentleman ?
this skull hath lain in the earth three and twenty years.
your mistress sent to have me home to dinner ?
and let him play his music.
hark, she speaks!
say our pleasure ,  to such whose place is under us ,  requires our quick remove from hence .
tis like a demi - cannon .
so the spirit is eased .
peace ,  ho !
othello ?
your praise is come too swiftly home before you .
sure ,  luciana ,  it is two o'clock .
i will hence tonight .
what ,  rome ?
at your kind'st leisure .
censure me in your wisdom, and awake your senses, that you may the better judge.
bring her to try wi' th' main course .
down ,  therefore ,  and beg mercy of the duke .
why ,  ‘one fair daughter ,  and no more ,  the which he loved passing well . ’ still on my daughter .
a dog of that house shall move me to stand .
or is it some abuse ,  and no such thing ?
were it not better ,  because that i am more than common tall ,  that i did suit me all points like a man ?
come on ,  gentle my lord ,  sleek o'er your rugged looks; be bright and jovial among your guests tonight .
then i will come to my mother by and by .
here have i few attendants and subjects none abroad.
o sir ,  very well: here in your orchard .
he scrape a trencher!
in such a time as this it is not meet that every nice offense should bear his comment .
he misses not much .
i pray you, bring me on the way a little; and say if i shall see you soon at night.
let us seek out some desolate shade and there weep our sad bosoms empty .
then like a roman bear the truth i tell .
think on thy sins .
marry ,  farewell !
and you ,  sir ,  for this chain arrested me .
ay ,  if i know the letters and the language .
and ,  you know ,  his means ,  if he improve them ,  may well stretch so far as to annoy us all; which to prevent ,  let antony and caesar fall together .
thus from my lips ,  by thine ,  my sin is purged .
why ,  then the devil give him good of it !
even he ,  sir .
but if i had wit enough to get out of this wood ,  i have enough to serve mine own turn .
ay ,  or very falsely pocket up his report .
romans, countrymen, and lovers!
pardon me, julius!
what tributaries follow him to rome, to grace in captive bonds his chariot-wheels?
believe me for mine honor ,  and have respect to mine honor ,  that you may believe .
but i shall crave your pardon .
take it and do ’t ,  and leave me for this time .
your sword upon a woman ?
here comes antony .
he is of a very melancholy disposition .
yes ,  that thou didst .
i am very glad to see you ,  signior; welcome to cyprus .
back, foolish tears, back to your native spring!
alas that love, whose view is muffled still, should without eyes see pathways to his will!
the tyrant's people on both sides do fight ,  the noble thanes do bravely in the war; the day almost itself professes yours ,  and little is to do .
no ,  no; he's gone .
do so ,  and let no man abide this deed but we the doers .
indeed ?
o my dear gertrude ,  this ,  like to a murdering - piece ,  in many places gives me superfluous death .
yet ,  by your gracious patience ,  i will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver of my whole course of love: what drugs ,  what charms ,  what conjuration ,  and what mighty magic for such proceeding i am charged withal i won his daughter .
what ,  must our mouths be cold ?
and this .
no ,  that same wicked bastard of venus that was begot of thought ,  conceived of spleen ,  and born of madness ,  that blind rascally boy that abuses everyone’s eyes because his own are out ,  let him be judge how deep i am in love .
nay, press not so upon me, stand far off.
she is importunate, indeed distract.
how goes it now?
your lord does know my mind .
welcome, dear rosencrantz and guildenstern.
on the ground  sleep sound .
i have fled myself ,  and have instructed cowards to run and show their shoulders .
ay ,  forsooth .
tis strange ,  strange .
you hear the suit .
she's framed as fruitful as the free elements.
grief of my son’s exile hath stopped her breath .
what manners is in this, to press before thy father to a grave?
if you will let your lady know i am here to speak with her ,  and bring her along with you ,  it may awake my bounty further .
caesar sends greeting to the queen of egypt ,  and bids thee study on what fair demands thou mean’st to have him grant thee .
things base and vile, holding no quantity, love can transpose to form and dignity.
he doth nothing but frown ,  as who should say ,   “ an you will not have me ,  choose .  ”  he hears merry tales and smiles not .
o hell - kite !
well ,  what was yours ?
canst thou remember a time before we came unto this cell ?
his discretion ,  i am sure ,  cannot carry his valour; for the goose carries not the fox .
why ,  he that cuts off twenty years of life cuts off so many years of fearing death .
good ,  yet remember whom thou has aboard .
this was the most unkindest cut of all .
but, my lord, his majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head.
and thorough this distemperature we see the seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose; and on old hiems' thin and icy crown an odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds is, as in mockery, set.
dost thou mean the crown ?
tomorrow then i will expect your coming .
wherefore storm you so ?
i have sent to bid cassio come speak with you .
i found it in my chamber; and he himself confess'd but even now that there he dropp'd it for a special purpose which wrought to his desire.
you must translate .
kent banished thus ?
then ,  my queen ,  in silence sad ,  trip we after night's shade .
where are these hearts ?
and, if not so, how should i wrong a brother?
i hear horses .
aside .
never till this day saw i him touched with anger so distempered .
as with the meat ,  some undeservèd fault i’ll find about the making of the bed ,  and here i’ll fling the pillow ,  there the bolster ,  this way the coverlet ,  another way the sheets .
let him come ,  and kindly .
what if her eyes were there, they in her head?
no .
twas yet some comfort when misery could beguile the tyrant’s rage and frustrate his proud will .
doth she not count her blest ,  unworthy as she is ,  that we have wrought so worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom ?
what !
most learnèd judge ,  a sentence !
can no prayers pierce thee ?
let's see for means.
yet the gold bides still that others touch ,  and often touching will wear gold; yet no man that hath a name by falsehood and corruption doth it shame .
noble sebastian ,  thou let'st thy fortune sleep—die rather; wink'st whiles thou art waking .
o prince!
o, treachery!
o cicero ,  i have seen tempests when the scolding winds have rived the knotty oaks ,  and i have seen th' ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam to be exalted with the threatening clouds ,  but never till tonight ,  never till now ,  did i go through a tempest dropping fire .
meantime forbear, and let mischance be slave to patience.
how say you by this change ?
yet in faith ,  if you did ,  it would not much approve me .
octavius, i have seen more days than you, and though we lay these honors on this man to ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads, he shall but bear them as the ass bears gold, to groan and sweat under the business, either led or driven, as we point the way; and having brought our treasure where we will, then take we down his load and turn him off, like to the empty ass, to shake his ears and graze in commons.
to gonzalo] wherefore this what's the matter?
those that are married already—all but one—shall live; the rest shall keep as they are .
the king ,  sir— ay ,  sir ,  what of him ?
would that alone o' love he would detain ,  so he would keep fair quarter with his bed .
on the sixth hour; at which time ,  my lord ,  you said our work should cease .
out of doubt he is transported .
come, you spirits that tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here and fill me, from the crown to the toe, top-full of direst cruelty!
i have been dear to him ,  lad ,  some two thousand strong ,  or so .
sooth ,  madam ,  i hear nothing .
i will in cassio's lodging lose this napkin ,  and let him find it .
part them !
there is no ancient gentlemen but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers.
romeo is coming .
o ,  let the heavens give him defense against the elements ,  for i have lost him on a dangerous sea .
i shall obey ,  my lord .
but how wilt thou do for a father ?
so the gods preserve thee !
and my trust ,  like a good parent ,  did beget of him a falsehood in its contrary as great as my trust was ,  which had indeed no limit ,  a confidence sans bound .
when the moon shone ,  we did not see the candle .
why ,  then may you leave a casement of the great chamber window ,  where we play ,  open; and the moon may shine in at the casement .
what says he of our marriage ?
i know i can do it .
so sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow for debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe; which now in some slight measure it will pay, if for his tender here i make some stay.
nay ,  had i power ,  i should pour the sweet milk of concord into hell ,  uproar the universal peace ,  confound all unity on earth .
lechery ,  by this hand; an index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts .
rosencrantz and guildenstern hold their course for england.
delay it not; i'll have him hence tonight .
what say you then to falconbridge, the young baron of england?
therefore be doubledamn'd; swear thou art honest.
you have told me she hath received them and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden respect and acquaintance ,  but i find none .
help me ,  help me !
heaven keep that monster from othello's mind !
at mine unworthiness ,  that dare not offer what i desire to give ,  and much less take what i shall die to want .
thou speak'st it well .
blind is his love and best befits the dark .
and wherefore doth lysander deny your love ,  so rich within his soul ,  and tender me ,  forsooth ,  affection ,  but by your setting on ,  by your consent ?
i have ,  when you have heard what i can say .
is it fit ,  the three - fold world divided ,  he should stand one of the three to share it ?
is thy master stirring?
how are they escoted ?
though for myself alone i would not be ambitious in my wish to wish myself much better ,  yet for you i would be trebled twenty times myself— a thousand times more fair ,  ten thousand times more rich— that only to stand high in your account i might in virtue ,  beauties ,  livings ,  friends exceed account .
pronounce it for me ,  sir ,  to all our friends ,  for my heart speaks they are welcome .
give me .
find thou the means, and i'll find such a man.
was it not yesterday we spoke together?
once more remove ,  good friends .
two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats will not debate the question of this straw.
how stand i then ,  that have a father kill'd ,  a mother stain'd ,  excitements of my reason and my blood ,  and let all sleep ,  while to my shame i see the imminent death of twenty thousand men that for a fantasy and trick of fame go to their graves like beds ,  fight for a plot whereon the numbers cannot try the cause ,  which is not tomb enough and continent to hide the slain ?
true ,  worthy banquo !
tis spoken well .
lovers can see to do their amorous rites by their own beauties ,  or ,  if love be blind ,  it best agrees with night .
yes, to smell pork; to eat of the habitation which your prophet, the nazarite, conjured the devil into!
being unprepared ,  our will became the servant to defect ,  which else should free have wrought .
if it pass against us ,  we lose the better half of our possession ,  for all the temporal lands which men devout by testament have given to the church would they strip from us ,  being valued thus:  “ as much as would maintain ,  to the king’s honor ,  full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights ,  six thousand and two hundred good esquires; and ,  to relief of lazars and weak age of indigent faint souls past corporal toil ,  a hundred almshouses right well supplied; and to the coffers of the king besides ,  a thousand pounds by th' year .  ”  thus runs the bill .
a foolish thought ,  to say a sorry sight .
you are a saucy boy .
my lord ,  i think i saw him yesternight .
jove bless thee ,  master parson .
i was with hercules and cadmus once ,  when in a wood of crete they bayed the bear with hounds of sparta .
excellent .
his son was but a ward two years ago .
the gown is made just as my master had direction .
how fares our cousin hamlet ?
is your name shylock ?
freedom, high-day, freedom!
i heard it not .
this, casca; this, cinna; and this, metellus cimber.
and on that vice in him will my revenge find notable cause to work .
he lays it on .
alas, good cassio!
madam ,  good night .
both ,  both ,  my girl .
brutus ,  a word with you .
if every ducat in six thousand ducats were in six parts, and every part a ducat, i would not draw them,—i would have my bond.
but ’tis gone .
therefore ,  great king ,  we yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy .
i take my leave of you .
i had rather give his carcass to my hounds .
both ?
this green plot shall be our stage ,  this hawthorn - brake our tiring - house ,  and we will do it in action as we will do it before the duke .
what name ,  fair lady ?
conception is a blessing, but not as your daughter may conceive.
thou villain capulet !
if thou entertainest my love ,  let it appear in thy smiling .
he is no less than a stuffed man .
i little thought you would have followed .
god - a - mercy ,  grumio !
i have not dined today .
you know me well .
tell me ,  that i may sack the hateful mansion .
your constancy hath left you unattended .
his beard was as white as snow, all flaxen was his poll.
i knew it would be your answer .
thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose .
and do you now put on your best attire?
your son shall have my daughter with consent .
to withdraw with you— why do you go about to recover the wind of me ,  as if you would drive me into a toil ?
whiles i threat ,  he lives; words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives .
god’s will ,  i pray thee wish not one man more .
and mine, a hundred and forty.
what is ’t you seek ?
her vestal livery is but sick and green ,  and none but fools do wear it .
why ,  god will send more ,  if the man will be thankful .
and yet my sky shall not want .
see him delivered ,  fabian; bring him hither .
we wish your peace .
where is my father and my mother ,  nurse ?
i’ll have my bond .
i'll give thee a wind .
speak not so grossly . —you are all amazed .
more of this matter cannot i report .
the hour steals on .
the article of my oath ?
to fool) is thy lady within ?
sit thee down, clitus.
th’ exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine .
that he might not beteem the winds of heaven visit her face too roughly . —heaven and earth ,  must i remember ?
there is one within, besides the things that we have heard and seen, recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.
peace ,  ho !
and to sink in it ,  should you burthen love— too great oppression for a tender thing .
if ever i did dream of such a matter ,  abhor me .
but come ,  young waverer ,  come go with me .
of your complexion .
no thisbe do i see.
at nine i' th' morning here we’ll meet again .
hark ,  tranio !
sir, there is especial commission come from venice to depute cassio in othello's place.
you know me by my habit .
our hearts you see not; they are pitiful; and pity to the general wrong of rome— as fire drives out fire ,  so pity pity— hath done this deed on caesar .
but old folks ,  many feign as they were dead ,  unwieldy ,  slow ,  heavy ,  and pale as lead .
for himself to mar ,  ”  quoth he ?
tis a strange serpent .
alas now ,  pray you ,  work not so hard .
no ,  let me know ,  and knowing what i am ,  i know what she shall be .
nor stony tower ,  nor walls of beaten brass ,  nor airless dungeon ,  nor strong links of iron can be retentive to the strength of spirit .
i will ,  my lord .
high-day, freedom!
what is't ,  ophelia ,  he hath said to you ?
that were the most if he should   husband you .
but he that filches from me my good name robs me of that which not enriches him and makes me poor indeed .
and here will rest me .
god!
for shame ,  bring juliet forth .
and stay ,  good nurse .
the head is not more native to the heart ,  the hand more instrumental to the mouth ,  than is the throne of denmark to thy father .
we will haste us .
how now !
i have done the state some service ,  and they know't .
should i have answered caius cassius so ?
good morrow to you both .
what touches us ourself shall be last served .
say ’tis not so ,  a province i will give thee and make thy fortunes proud .
the fee simple?
anon !
not that i love you not.
if your master would have a queen his beggar ,  you must tell him ,  that majesty ,  to keep decorum ,  must no less beg than a kingdom .
if she be fair and wise ,  fairness and wit ,  the one's for use ,  the other useth it .
you draw me ,  you hard - hearted adamant .
o, the heavens!
at least two glasses.
live ,  live !
that is the sum of all ,  leonato . —signior claudio and signior benedick ,  my dear friend leonato hath invited you all .
of what your reverence shall incite us to .
come, you are too severe a moraler.
i mean ,  my lord ,  the opposition of your person in trial .
i do serve you in this business .
o ,  what cause have i ,  thine being but a moiety of my moan ,  to overgo thy woes and drown thy cries !
the news is true ,  my lord .
the lord mayor knocks .
and now ,  octavius ,  listen great things .
oh ,  they are our friends .
speak thou now .
but they’ll nor pinch ,  fright me with urchin - shows ,  pitch me i' th' mire ,  nor lead me like a firebrand in the dark out of my way ,  unless he bid 'em .
nay ,  good lysander .
from this time such i account thy love .
but ,  audrey ,  there is a youth here in the forest lays claim to you .
be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
when it is paid according to the tenor.
i will be free from thee .
i was sure your lordship did not give it me .
i'll have the work ta'en out, and give't iago.
look on the tragic loading of this bed; this is thy work .
at mine own house, good lady.
tis very good .
how will you live ?
heaven preserve you !
worthily spoken ,  maecenas .
how if your husband start some otherwhere ?
why ,  as by lot ,  god wot ,  and then ,  you know ,  it came to pass ,  as most like it was . — the first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look where my abridgment comes .
stay ,  countrymen .
i have looked upon the world for four times seven years ,  and since i could distinguish betwixt a benefit and an injury i never found man that knew how to love himself .
no, my heart is turned to stone; i strike it, and it hurts my hand.
look you ,  sir ,  such a one i was this present .
like to the time o’ th’ year between the extremes of hot and cold ,  he was nor sad nor merry .
my ducats ,  and my daughter !
to thee a woman’s services are due .
signior bassanio , — gratiano !
you call me misbeliever ,  cutthroat dog ,  and spet upon my jewish gaberdine— and all for use of that which is mine own .
i neither know it nor can learn of him .
tybalt ,  here slain ,  whom romeo's hand did slay .
my heart is sorry for your daughter’s death ,  but ,  on my honor ,  she was charged with nothing but what was true and very full of proof .
but here comes antony .
o sisters three, come, come to me, with hands as pale as milk; lay them in gore, since you have shore with shears his thread of silk.
so he does indeed .
for shame ,  you generals !
i believe drink gave thee the lie last night .
oh ,  out of that  “ no hope ”  what great hope have you !
the labor we delight in physics pain .
yours ,  yours .
o strange!
set on your foot ,  and with a heart new - fired i follow you ,  to do i know not what; but it sufficeth that brutus leads me on .
that's villainous and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it .
night hangs upon mine eyes .
and shall i couple hell?
but i can tell you that of late this duke hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece ,  grounded upon no other argument but that the people praise her for her virtues and pity her for her good father’s sake; and ,  on my life ,  his malice 'gainst the lady will suddenly break forth .
without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
edward’s unhappy sons do bid thee flourish .
here's one comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
heaven rest them now!
o, the recorders!
by this sword ,  i will .
farewell .
in the most high and palmy state of rome, a little ere the mightiest julius fell, the graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead did squeak and gibber in the roman streets; as stars with trains of fire and dews of blood, disasters in the sun; and the moist star, upon whose influence neptune's empire stands was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
he hates our sacred nation; and he rails ,  even there where merchants most do congregate ,  on me ,  my bargains ,  and my well - won thrift ,  which he calls interest .
reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit and lost without deserving .
thou art like one of these fellows that ,  when he enters the confines of a tavern ,  claps me his sword upon the table and says ‘god send me no need of thee ! ’ and by the operation of the second cup draws him on the drawer ,  when indeed there is no need .
i have a widow aunt ,  a dowager of great revenue ,  and she hath no child .
or if thou wilt needs marry ,  marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them .
oh that i knew this husband ,  which ,  you say ,  must charge his horns with garlands !
but ,  lepidus ,  go you to caesar's house ,  fetch the will hither ,  and we shall determine how to cut off some charge in legacies .
that's not my meaning; but breathe his faults so quaintly that they may seem the taints of liberty ,  the flash and outbreak of a fiery mind ,  a savageness in unreclaimed blood ,  of general assault .
all three of them are desperate .
mistress ,  upon my life i tell you true .
yet you are withered .
for what is he they follow ?
seafaring men ,  sir .
my clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
behold ,  i have a weapon; a better never did itself sustain upon a soldier's thigh .
farewell ,  farewell .
i held the sword and he did run on it .
let him go ,  and presently prefer his suit to caesar .
withdraw; i hear him coming.
if it be no more ,  portia is brutus' harlot ,  not his wife .
he weeps for what is done.
both sides are even .
i’ll know his humor when he knows his time .
o, where is romeo?
i loved you not.
do you mark that ?
perchance till after theseus' wedding day .
excellent ,  i' faith; of the chameleon's dish .
the advancement of your children ,  gentle lady .
as i do live ,  my honored lord ,  ’tis true .
i am bound to thee forever .
did he receive you well ?
i am no less in blood than thou art ,  edmund .
say that they slack their duties
good your highness ,  patience .
come, go, good juliet.
go ,  bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns .
why is your cheek so pale ?
alas ,  sweet lady ,  what imports this song ?
besides ,  they are our outward consciences and preachers to us all ,  admonishing that we should dress us fairly for our end .
it is a creature that i teach to fight, to wind, to stop, to run directly on, his corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
stay'd it long ?
now follows ,  that you know ,  young fortinbras ,  holding a weak supposal of our worth ,  or thinking by our late dear brother's death our state to be disjoint and out of frame ,  colleagued with this dream of his advantage ,  he hath not fail'd to pester us with message ,  importing the surrender of those lands lost by his father ,  with all bonds of law ,  to our most valiant brother .
our arms in strength of malice and our hearts of brothers' temper do receive you in with all kind love ,  good thoughts ,  and reverence .
we will ,  my noble lord .
i pray you ,  let me see it .
no, my dear'st love, i would not for the world.
briefly ,  i dwell by the capitol .
no; i will resist such entertainment till mine enemy has more power .
yes, that i did; but that was but courtesy.
the glowworm shows the matin to be near ,  and 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire .
why ,  that the moor first gave to desdemona ,  that which so often you did bid me steal .
thou runaway ,  thou coward ,  art thou fled ?
vex not his ghost .
uncle ,  i must come forth .
and prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
i do not find that thou dealest justly with me .
for then i’ll marry warwick’s youngest daughter .
was never widow had so dear a loss .
o fool!
and twenty of these puny lies i’ll tell ,  that men shall swear i have discontinued school above a twelvemonth .
now, sir, be judge yourself whether i in any just term am affined to love the moor.
the world's a huge thing; it is a great price for a final vice.
i’ll not be strucken ,  my lord .
i have been worth the whistle .
whose grave's this ,  sir -  rah ?
but well .
the brain may devise laws for the blood; but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold decree: such a hare is madness the youth ,  to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the cripple .
here’s a night pities neither wise man nor fool .
who wrongs him ?
i see this hath a little dashed your spirits .
let us be satisfied !
this is no mortal business ,  nor no sound that the earth owes . —i hear it now above me .
she is indeed perfection .
farewell ,  good charles .
i ,  not remembering how i cried out then ,  will cry it o'er again .
this is the place .
the same indeed; a very valiant fellow .
o notable strumpet !
faith, you'll be sick to-morrow for this night's watching.
i pray you ,  let it stand .
younger than she are happy mothers made.
well ,  for your favor ,  sir ,  why ,  give god thanks ,  and make no boast of it ,  and for your writing and reading ,  let that appear when there is no need of such vanity .
read it ,  mark antony .
call philostrate .
thus far can i praise him: he is of a noble strain ,  of approved valor ,  and confirmed honesty .
eyes, look your last!
content thee, gentle coz, let him alone.
fare thee well .
why ,  or for what ,  the nobles were committed is all unknown to me ,  my gracious lord .
sblood ,  an arrant traitor as any ’s in the universal world ,  or in france ,  or in england !
be not afraid; she shall not harm thee ,  helena .
i am no traitor .
you are a saucy boy.
methinks i hear antony call .
in good time ,  sir ,  what’s that ?
these foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit: adieu!
and died that day when viola from her birth had numbered thirteen years .
we must be patient ,  but i cannot choose but weep ,  to think they should lay him i' th' cold ground .
it is good to grow .
to gonzalo] nay ,  good my lord ,  be not angry .
no, nothing but ourselves.
give me a taper!
o, heaven forgive us!
i have, when you have heard what i can say.
alas ,  poor country ,  almost afraid to know itself !
one of my fellows had the speed of him ,  who ,  almost dead for breath ,  had scarcely more than would make up his message .
he will stay till you come.
nor no man else .
and do you now strew flowers in his way that comes in triumph over pompey's blood?
iago ,  who began't ?
as it determines ,  so dissolve my life !
nerissa, cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome.
o calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
passion ,  i see ,  is catching ,  for mine eyes ,  seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine ,  began to water .
dear lady ,  welcome home .
nay ,  you were a fragment of gneius pompey’s ,  besides what hotter hours ,  unregistered in vulgar fame ,  you have luxuriously picked out .
my lord, here stays without, a messenger with letters from the doctor, new come from padua.
o day untowardly turned !
custom hath made it in him a property of easiness .
here you may roast your goose .
the strings ,  my lord ,  are false .
she speaks ,  yet she says nothing .
did heaven look on ,  and would not take their part ?
rub him about the temples .
then must the jew be merciful .
turn thy complexion there ,  patience ,  thou young and rose - lipped cherubin , — ay ,  there ,  look grim as hell !
dispatch .
no ,  no ,  we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself .
a horse ,  a horse ,  my kingdom for a horse !
nay ,  blush not ,  cleopatra .
tis hard; almost impossible .
why dost thou lead these men about the streets ?
who did strike out the light ?
how ,  my lord ,  i may be censured ,  that nature thus gives way to loyalty ,  something fears me to think of .
to offend ,  and judge ,  are distinct offices ,  and of opposed natures .
o ,  i have bought the mansion of a love ,  but not possess'd it; and though i am sold ,  not yet enjoy'd .
ay ,  my lord .
i pay thy poverty and not thy will .
o, you are well tuned now!
put on your nightgown .
the what ?
courage ,  man .
what, you egg!
seyton !
for no kind of traffic would i admit .
ay ,  if you dare do yourself a profit and a right .
hold ,  ho !
reply not .
down with the capulets !
i prithee ,  remember i have done thee worthy service ,  told thee no lies ,  made thee no mistakings ,  served without or grudge or grumblings .
what, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
but are not some whole that we must make sick ?
even so .
looked he or red or pale ,  or sad or merrily ?
indeed ,  to speak feelingly of him ,  he is the card or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of what part a gen -  tleman would see .
tybalt is dead ,  and romeo banishèd .  ”
no.
yea ,  and my father .
tybalt, here slain, whom romeo's hand did slay.
i will not fail you .
another hero !
as i did sleep under this yew tree here, i dreamt my master and another fought, and that my master slew him.
and i.
o worthy stephano !
o ,  touch me not .
i’ll humbly signify what in his name ,  that magical word of war ,  we have effected: how with his banners and his well - paid ranks the ne’er - yet - beaten horse of parthia we have jaded out o’ th’ field .
are you sure of that?
my mistress ,  dearest; and i thus humble ever .
i did so ,  and went further ,  which is now our point of second meeting .
go ,  get thee in yaughan; fetch me a stoup of liquor .
caesar ,  thou canst not die by traitors' hands unless thou bring’st them with thee .
i’ll unhair thy head !
fie upon ’t ,  foh !
his fault concludes but what the law should end ,  the life of tybalt .
you spurn me hence ,  and he will spurn me hither .
see where his grace stands ,  ’tween two clergymen .
sweet sir toby ,  be patient for tonight .
it's the wind.
there the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled hath nature that in time will venom breed, no teeth for the present.
more than pertains to feats of broils and battle ,  and therefore little shall i grace my cause in speaking for myself .
o ,  in the duke of gloucester’s purse .
no .
we will be witnesses .
call me what instrument you will ,  though you can fret me ,  you cannot play upon me .
get you hence ,  sirrah; saucy fellow ,  hence !
it alone concerns your ear .
there's a french salutation to your french slop .
more wonderful ,  when angels are so angry .
well said .
i tell thee true .
their aunt i am in law ,  in love their mother .
had i been any god of power ,  i would have sunk the sea within the earth ,  or ere it should the good ship so have swallowed and the fraughting souls within her .
o my brother’s child !
my wits begin to turn . —   come on ,  my boy .
so doth the greater glory dim the less: a substitute shines brightly as a king ,  unto the king be by; and then his state ,  empties itself ,  as doth an inland brook into the main of waters .
fie upon't!
aside] they vanished strangely .
then would to heaven that i had never seen ’t !
stay'd it long?
romeo, away, be gone!
romeo, there dead, was husband to that juliet; and she, there dead, that romeo's faithful wife.
let us hear him .
i have none.
we looked not for mark antony here .
how may we try it further ?
other women cloy the appetites they feed ,  but she makes hungry where most she satisfies ,  for vilest things become themselves in her ,  that the holy priests bless her when she is riggish .
over hill ,  over dale ,   thorough bush ,  thorough brier ,   over park ,  over pale ,   thorough flood ,  thorough fire .
tis figured in my tongue .
no, not an oath.
what handkerchief ?
good morrow ,  cousin .
i’ll meet you at that place some hour hence .
ay ,  in the catalogue ye go for men ,  as hounds and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  curs ,  shoughs ,  waterrugs ,  and demi - wolves are clept all by the name of dogs .
the very place puts toys of desperation, without more motive, into every brain that looks so many fathoms to the sea and hears it roar beneath.
is claudio thine enemy ?
i bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
you look pale and gaze and put on fear and cast yourself in wonder ,  to see the strange impatience of the heavens .
i do believe it against an oracle .
these our actors ,  as i foretold you ,  were all spirits ,  and are melted into air ,  into thin air; and ,  like the baseless fabric of this vision ,  the cloud - capped towers ,  the gorgeous palaces ,  the solemn temples ,  the great globe itself ,  yea ,  all which it inherit ,  shall dissolve ,  and ,  like this insubstantial pageant faded ,  leave not a rack behind .
foul deeds will rise ,  though all the earth o'erwhelm them ,  to men's eyes .
what say you?
thou hast quar rell'd with a man for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun.
you perhaps may think ,  because she is something lower than myself ,  that i can match her .
have patience and endure .
flute, you must take thisbe on you.
but there’s more work .
speak, strike, redress!” am i entreated to speak and strike?
servant - monster ”  ?
early tomorrow will we rise and hence.
dolabella !
holy franciscan friar !
tell me where it is .
putting on a garment] o ,  ho ,  monster !
at crosby place ,  there shall you find us both .
le chien est retourné à son propre vomissement ,  et la truie lavée au bourbier .  ”  thou mak’st use of anything .
think you to walk forth ?
yet am i noble as the adversary i come to cope withal .
here comes the lady .
for i am sure ,  though you can guess what temperance should be ,  you know not what it is .
poor desdemon !
i would not spare my brother in this case if he should scorn me so apparently .
let me not name it to you ,  you chaste stars ,  it is the cause .
through the house give glimmering light ,  by the dead and drowsy fire .
if thou beest not immortal ,  look about you .
go release them ,  ariel .
commend me to thy lady ,  and bid her hasten all the house to bed ,  which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto .
bind him ,  i say .
up .
o desdemona!
if he do bleed, i'll gild the faces of the grooms withal, for it must seem their guilt.
in his tongue .
then one of you will prove a shrunk panel and ,  like green timber ,  warp ,  warp .
judge ,  o you gods ,  how dearly caesar loved him !
awake!
truly then i fear you are damned both by father and mother: thus when i shun scylla ,  your father ,  i fall into charybdis ,  your mother: well ,  you are gone both ways .
so oft as that shall be ,  so often shall the knot of us be call'd the men that gave their country liberty .
if she convey letters to richmond ,  you shall answer it .
tis a match .
who keeps her company?
then ’tis most like the sovereignty will fall upon macbeth .
ay ,  ay ,  the cords .
have by some surgeon ,  shylock ,  on your charge ,  to stop his wounds lest he do bleed to death .
and do you now strew flowers in his way that comes in triumph over pompey's blood ?
thou must be patient .
i know not ,  madam .
the gentleness of all the gods go with thee !
i long that we were safe and sound aboard .
but though my cates be mean ,  take them in good part .
tis not the king that sends you to the tower .
if he should offer to choose, and choose the right casket, you should refuse to perform your father's will, if you should refuse to accept him.
oh ,  the difference of man and man !
as ever you come of women ,  come in quickly to sir john .
i am not in a sportive humor now .
and set it down with gold on lasting pillars: in one voyage did claribel her husband find at tunis ,  and ferdinand ,  her brother ,  found a wife where he himself was lost; prospero his dukedom in a poor isle; and all of ourselves ,  when no man was his own [to ferdinand and miranda] give me your hands .
where ,  where ?
what's this to my lysander?
but yet ,  madam— i do not like  “ but yet .  ”  it does allay the good precedence .
that’s fouler .
what ,  not a whore ?
no grave upon the earth shall clip in it a pair so famous .
never believe it .
nay ,  then .
sirrah ,  go see what trumpet ’tis that sounds .
consent to swear .
what judgment shall i dread ,  doing no wrong ?
here is more news .
what if i strayed no further, but chose here?— let's see once more this saying grav'd in gold: who chooseth me, shall gain what many men desire.
what should a man do but be merry ?
where is this rash and most unfortunate man ?
but let them measure us by what they will .
i will, my hermia.
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
o you mighty gods ,   this world i do renounce ,  and in your sights shake patiently my great affliction off .
ay, but, lady, that policy may either last so long, or feed upon such nice and waterish diet, or breed itself so out of circumstances, that i being absent and my place supplied, my general will forget my love and service.
and from my soul too; else beshrew them both.
i am not married ,  caesar .
whether this be or be not ,  i’ll not swear .
i saw it in his hand: it was a handkerchief ,  an antique token my father gave my mother .
men may sleep ,  and they may have their throats about them at that time ,  and some say knives have edges .
here comes brabantio and the valiant moor .
soft !
indeed ,  i am no mourner for that news ,  because they have been still my adversaries .
lead away .
is that true?
what ,  is the jay more precious than the lark because his feathers are more beautiful ?
that hath made him mad.
i thank thee ,  master .
they are loves i bear to you.
soldiers, sir.
then all alone at the prefixed hour of her waking came i to take her from her kindred's vault; meaning to keep her closely at my cell till i conveniently could send to romeo.
a wandering knight ?
i thank your honour.—for my part, my lord, my purpose was not to have seen you here; but meeting with salerio by the way, he did entreat me, past all saying nay, to come with him along.
my father loved sir rowland as his soul ,  and all the world was of my father’s mind .
one ,  kate ,  that you must kiss and be acquainted with . — where are my slippers ?
my lord, i would that thursday were to-morrow.
nay ,  that's not your way .
miranda .
they are all welcome .
bernardo hath my place.
then do but say to me what i should do, that in your knowledge may by me be done, and i am prest unto it: therefore speak.
cassio, walk hereabout.
give the word through .
by the lord ,  madam ,  you wrong me ,  and the world shall know it .
what tranio did ,  myself enforced him to .
good my lord, how does your honour for this many a day?
meaning, to curtsy.
do, if it will not stand.
o ,  teach me how i should forget to think !
what noise?
i have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak’st .
go ,  and bring them .
welcome, good friends.
why ,  what's the matter ?
in faith, he's penitent; and yet his trespass, in our common reason— save that, they say, the wars must make examples out of their best—is not almost a fault to incur a private check.
most horrible!
no.
these are news indeed !
o excellent young man !
hath leonato any son ,  my lord ?
what will you give us ?
a likely piece of work that you should find it in your chamber and not know who left it there !
the letters that he speaks of  may be my friends .
now i see ’tis true; for the blood-bolter'd banquo smiles upon me, and points at them for his.
come ,  desdemona ,  once more well met at cyprus .
what needs this iteration, woman?
follow her close; give her good watch ,  i pray you .
the pale companion is not for our pomp .
what wilt thou do for her?
fear it ,  my dear sister ,  and keep you in the rear of your affection ,  out of the shot and danger of desire .
enough ,  captain .
who is't that cried?
i know that we shall have him well to friend .
not i .
for aught that i could ever read ,  could ever hear by tale or history ,  the course of true love never did run smooth .
who's there ?
these blazes, daughter, giving more light than heat, extinct in both even in their promise, as it is a-making, you must not take for fire.
stephano is my name; and i bring word my mistress will before the break of day be here at belmont; she doth stray about by holy crosses ,  where she kneels and prays for happy wedlock hours .
what wert thou if the king of naples heard thee ?
by the world ,  i think my wife be honest and think she is not .
i'll find romeo to comfort you.
turn back ,  dull earth ,  and find thy centre out .
he seems to have a foreknowledge of that too ,  and therefore comes to speak with you .
this man hath had good counsel—a hundred knights !
some such squire he was that turn'd your wit the seamy side without, and made you to suspect me with the moor.
i will walk up and down here and i will sing ,  that they shall hear i am not afraid .
or if thou wilt needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them.
sir ,  my good friend ,  i’ll change that name with you .
sovereign of egypt ,  hail !
why, 'tis an office of discovery, love; and i should be obscur'd.
ay ,  my good lord .
give me your hand .
do i entice you ?
well ,  sir ,  i’ll bring you to our master lear and leave you to attend him .
oh ,  that a man might know the end of this day’s business ere it come !
to the tuition of god .
alack ,  sir ,  i am sand - blind .
thou shalt be pinched as thick as honeycomb ,  each pinch more stinging than bees that made 'em .
take thou some new infection to thy eye ,  and the rank poison of the old will die .
i will say for you .
you grow exceeding strange: must it be so?
what, i, my lord?
what, have you din'd at home?
it nothing ill becomes thee . — aboard my galley i invite you all .
tis time to part .
messala ,  this is my birthday ,  as this very day was cassius born .
a drum ,  a drum !
we'll play with them ,  the first boy for a thousand ducats .
why—after i have cut the egg i' th' middle and eat up the meat—the two crowns of the egg .
i an itching palm?
speak to me what thou art .
men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes ,  which after - hours give leisure to repent .
all is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
nor must not then be yielded to in this .
that methinks is strange .
by mine honor ,  in true english ,  i love thee ,  kate .
we must not.
your charm so strongly works 'em that if you now beheld them ,  your affections would become tender .
why did you bring these daggers from the place?
th' exchange of thy love’s faithful vow for mine .
o ,  help ,  ho !
take you ,  as ’twere ,  some distant knowledge of him ,  as thus:  “ i know his father and his friends ,  and ,  in part ,  him .  ”  do you mark this ,  reynaldo ?
take comfort .
you more invest it!
tis now the very witching time of night ,  when churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out contagion to this world .
with rosaline, my ghostly father?
our intent was to be gone from athens, where we might, without the peril of the athenian law.
i am not sorry neither .
thy shape invisible retain thou still .
how didst thou know 'twas she ?
therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh .
with his mouth full of news .
my fan ,  peter .
unbutton here .
but forbear ,  i say .
as thick as hail came post with post, and every one did bear thy praises in his kingdom's great defense, and pour'd them down before him.
the clock struck nine when i did send the nurse; in half an hour she promis'd to return.
well, what is it?
i have .
ay ,  my good lord .
go, tubal, fee me an officer, bespeak him a fortnight before: i will have the heart of him, if he forfeit; forwere he out of venice, i can make what merchandise i will.
but jealous souls will not be answer'd so; they are not ever jealous for the cause ,  but jealous for they are jealous .
well shone ,  moon ! —truly ,  the moon shines with a good grace .
i see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to fright me, if they could.
welcome ,  then .
had you not come upon your cue ,  my lord ,  william lord hastings had pronounced your part— i mean your voice for crowning of the king .
what should it be that is so shrieked abroad ?
that same cowardly giant-like ox-beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house.
who was't came by ?
music, and a song music, and a song hark!
and that you would have me to do ?
tis wonder that thy life and wits at once had not concluded all . —he wakes .
get me a taper in my study ,  lucius .
what’s the matter ?
it shall be so .
and that distill'd by magic sleights shall raise such artificial sprites as by the strength of their illusion shall draw him on to his confusion.
how dost thou ,  benedick ,  the married man ?
a tailor make a man ?
i am poisoned .
i'll have some proof .
if he do bleed ,  i'll gild the faces of the grooms withal ,  for it must seem their guilt .
ay ,  for the state; not for antonio .
where is the horse that doth untread again, his tedious measures with the unbated fire, that he did pace them first?
i would the fool were married to her grave !
oh ,  that woman that cannot make her fault her husband’s occasion ,  let her never nurse her child herself ,  for she will breed it like a fool .
i could do more to do antonius good ,  but ’twould offend him ,  and in his offense should my performance perish .
jove shield thee well for this !
roderigo kill'd?
some wine ,  ho !
i pity you .
a maiden never bold; of spirit so still and quiet that her motion blush'd at herself; and she—in spite of nature, of years, of country, credit, everything— to fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
what is the matter ?
tell me, othello.
too cruel any where.
let it go .
i have a speech of fire ,  that fain would blaze but that this folly drowns it .
how now ?
or have we eaten on the insane root that takes the reason prisoner ?
lie they upon thy hand and be undone by ’em !
it was .
what care i what curious eye doth quote deformities?
no, by the rood, not so!
that villain cousin would have kill'd my husband.
god hath blessed you with a good name .
i'll after that same villain, for 'tis a damned slave.
ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
why ,  ’tis a cockle or a walnut shell ,  a knack ,  a toy ,  a trick ,  a baby’s cap .
master ,  go on ,  and i will follow thee to the last gasp ,  with truth and loyalty .
uncle ,  this is a montague ,  our foe ,  a villain that is hither come in spite to scorn at our solemnity this night .
nay, an thou'lt mouth, i'll rant as well as thou.
romeo slew him; he slew mercutio .
well ,  i will be so much a sinner ,  to be a double - dealer .
she turned to folly ,  and she was a whore .
o ,  damn her !
for charitable prayers shards ,  flints and pebbles should be thrown on her .
when i have fought with the men, i will be civil with the maids; i will cut off their heads.
marry ,  bachelor ,  her mother is the lady of the house .
what cares these roarers for the name of the king ?
fly further off, my lord, fly further off; mark antony is in your tents, my lord; fly, therefore, noble cassius, fly far off.
avoid what is to come .
but those that understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads .
both with an r .  ah ,  mocker !
o, well done!
you have lost no reputation at all, unless you repute yourself such a loser.
nor nothing in your letters writ of her ?
men should be what they seem; or those that be not, would they might seem none!
why, thou loss upon loss!
think upon what hath chanced ,  and at more time ,  the interim having weigh'd it ,  let us speak our free hearts each to other .
well met ,  corporal nym .
this a dull sight .
my lord ,  my lord !
death ,  in guerdon of her wrongs ,  gives her fame which never dies .
thy wit is a very bitter sweeting .
i go ,  i go; look how i go ,  swifter than arrow from the tartar's bow .
i humbly thank you ,  sir .
o ,  wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied ?
a single thing ,  as i am now ,  that wonders to hear thee speak of naples .
a glooming peace this morning with it brings.
come hither, my dear hamlet, sit by me.
why ,  then ,  i care not for thee .
god almighty ,  there is some soul of goodness in things evil ,  would men observingly distill it out .
fear comes upon me.
i warrant you ,  madam .
so turns she every man the wrong side out and never gives to truth and virtue that which simpleness and merit purchaseth .
though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus ,  yet nature finds itself scourged by the sequent effects .
what say the augurers ?
his name is balthazar .
o isis ,  ’tis impossible .
what news ?
i strike quickly, being moved.
we'll wait upon you.
denmark's a prison.
this looks not like a nuptial .
no !
peace ,  ho !
go to!
madam ,  it so fell out ,  that certain players we o'erraught on the way .
stay ,  gentle helena; hear my excuse; my love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  fair helena !
nay ,  but i bar tonight .
i am hurt .
what bastard doth not?
let not that doctor e'er come near my house !
thanks to your majesty.
the devil himself could not pronounce a title more hateful to mine ear.
ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
let me tell you ,  cassius ,  you yourself are much condemn'd to have an itching palm ,  to sell and mart your offices for gold to undeservers .
cousin ,  thou wast not wont to be so dull .
shame ,  and eternal shame ,  nothing but shame !
let it not ,  brutus .
i pray you ,  let me look upon the bond .
this morning are they fled away and gone, and in their steads do ravens, crows, and kites fly o'er our heads and downward look on us, as we were sickly prey.
now gather ,  and surmise .
fairy king, attend and mark; i do hear the morning lark.
oh ,  thereby hangs a tail .
let not my worser spirit tempt me again to die before you please .
dost thou think if i would stand against thee ,  would the reposal of any trust ,  virtue ,  or worth in thee make thy words faithed ?
what is the matter ,  masters ? — honest iago ,  that looks dead with grieving ,  speak ,  who began this ?
all offices are open, and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven.
the queen of audience nor desire shall fail ,  so she from egypt drive her all - disgracèd friend or take his life there .
she is too big ,  i hope ,  for me to compass .
i pray thee ,  chide not .
i bought an unction of a mountebank, so mortal that but dip a knife in it, where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare, collected from all simples that have virtue under the moon, can save the thing from death this is but scratch'd withal.
what say you to a piece of beef and mustard ?
come ,  my lord ,  and in our flight tell me how it came this night that i sleeping here was found with these mortals on the ground .
tis time we twain did show ourselves i’ th’ field ,  and to that end assemble we immediate council .
he's gone, but his wife's kill'd.
fa ,  sol ,  la ,  mi .
i pray you ,  father ,  being weak ,  seem so .
i promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now.
will you speak well of him that killed your cousin ?
therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded ,  and i’ll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded and with him there lie mudded .
tis certain ,  every man that dies ill ,  the ill upon his own head .
i will debate this matter at more leisure and teach your ears to list me with more heed .
why, but you are now well enough.
did you never see the picture of  “ we three ”  ?
the duke is humorous .
good madam ,  keep yourself within yourself .
well ,  we were born to die .
in heaven .
fail not our feast .
her head’s declined ,  and death will seize her but your comfort makes the rescue .
and when she weeps ,  weeps every little flower ,  lamenting some enforcèd chastity .
let us to the great supper .
mark his condition and th’event; then tell me if this might be a brother .
sir ?
let each man render me his bloody hand .
o ,  heaven forgive us !
i say again ,  give out that anne my queen is sick and like to die .
i would do much to atone them ,  for the love i bear to cassio .
here is the cap your worship did bespeak .
there’s none but witches do inhabit here ,  and therefore ’tis high time that i were hence .
that's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs .
that will i do .
if to do were as easy as to know what were good to do ,  chapels had been churches ,  and poor men's cottages princes' palaces .
no ,  not to live .
i think he be transformed into a beast ,  for i can nowhere find him like a man .
my mother !
and a good soldier too ,  lady .
commend me to thy lady .
for if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a good kissing carrion—have you a daughter?
my brave spirit !
i call'd my love false love; but what said he then ?
never, till caesar's three and thirty wounds be well avenged, or till another caesar have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
if you think i come hither as a lion, it were pity of my life.
o ,  give me leave .
tis all one.
you may do so:—but let it be so hasted, that supper be ready at the farthest by five of the clock.
i’ll make thee an example .
an i may hide my face ,  let me play thisbe too !
mercy but murders ,  pardoning those that kill .
get thee to bed ,  francisco .
look with what courteous action it waves you to a more removed ground .
come on, trinculo, let us sing.
swear.
here's one ,  a friend ,  and one that knows you well .
no, my good lord; but, as you did command, i did repel his letters and denied his access to me.
would he were fatter !
come now ,  your promise .
twas he informed against him ,  and quit the house on purpose that their punishment might have the freer course .
how say you by the french lord ,  monsieur le bon ?
and now forward with thy tale .
but ,  lepidus ,  go you to caesar’s house .
what’s that ?
varro !
lord, how my head aches!
assuredly the thing is to be sold .
what ,  art thou drawn among these heartless hinds ?
but you'll be secret ?
do me no foul play ,  friends .
and ,  i'll warrant her ,  full of game .
season your admiration for a while with an attent ear ,  till i may deliver upon the witness of these gentlemen ,  this marvel to you .
oh ,  she was foul ! — i scarce did know you ,  uncle .
it is the cause .
hound or spaniel ,  brach or him ,   bobtail tyke or trundle - tail—  tom will make them weep and wail .
caesar ,  i bring thee word menecrates and menas ,  famous pirates ,  make the sea serve them ,  which they ear and wound with keels of every kind .
forever and forever farewell ,  brutus .
no ,  i am a welshman .
by heaven, i'll make a ghost of him that lets me.
by this light ,  thou shalt be my lieutenant ,  monster ,  or my standard .
no, sir.
but what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed, one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?
wherefore this ghastly looking ?
what things are these, my lord antonio?
i wot well where he is .
roderigo !
how far is't call'd to forres?
mustardseed .
how is it else the man i' the moon?
faith ,  sir ,  you need not fear .
how now ,  good cassio !
how now ,  who calls ?
mend when thou canst .
i go ,  sir ,  but i would not have you to think that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness .
good sir ,  be a man ,  think every bearded fellow that’s but yoked may draw with you .
no, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp, and crook the pregnant hinges of the knee where thrift may follow fawning.
i understand a fury in your words ,  but not the words .
do you think 'tis this ?
what's your gracious pleasure?
truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, i am but, as you would say, a cobbler.
i can as well be hang'd as tell the manner of it .
hamlet, thou art slain; no medicine in the world can do thee good.
going to find a barefoot brother out, one of our order, to associate me here in this city visiting the sick, and finding him, the searchers of the town, suspecting that we both were in a house where the infectious pestilence did reign, seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth, so that my speed to mantua there was stay'd.
what ,  is he dead ?
the son of duncan, from whom this tyrant holds the due of birth, lives in the english court and is received of the most pious edward with such grace that the malevolence of fortune nothing takes from his high respect.
i did not see you; welcome ,  gentle signior; we lack'd your counsel and your help tonight .
tis for the head.
i marvel why i answered not again .
to whom ,  my lord ?
but here's a parchment with the seal of caesar; i found it in his closet, 'tis his will.
peace !
as the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled .
this is the fruit of whoring .
whip me ,  ye devils ,  from the possession of this heavenly sight !
she told her ,  while she kept it 'twould make her amiable and subdue my father entirely to her love ,  but if she lost it or made gift of it ,  my father’s eye should hold her loathèd and his spirits should hunt after new fancies .
so much was his pleasure should be proclaimed .
we'll burn the house of brutus.
tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou hadst been poor-john.
though all things foul would wear the brows of grace, yet grace must still look so.
my lord, i take my leave.
and patches will i get unto these cudgeled scars ,  and swear i got them in the gallia wars .
i drink the air before me ,  and return or ere your pulse twice beat .
why ,  i think so .
here ,  peter quince .
madam ,  your mother craves a word with you .
i bespoke it not .
please you ,  sir ,  do not omit the heavy offer of it .
so will ye, i am sure, that you love me.
he ,  swift of foot ,  outran my purpose; and i return'd the rather for that i heard the clink and fall of swords ,  and cassio high in oath ,  which till tonight i ne'er might say before .
is your englishman so expert in his drinking?
shall i speak ill of him that is my husband ?
hath put himself from rest ,  and must needs taste his folly .
my thanes and kinsmen ,  henceforth be earls ,  the first that ever scotland in such an honor named .
woe ,  woe are we ,  sir ,  you may not live to wear all your true followers out .
then meet me forthwith at the notary’s .
for now, this fearful night, there is no stir or walking in the streets, and the complexion of the element in favor's like the work we have in hand, most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
taurus !
wake duncan with thy knocking .
we have consented to all terms of reason .
he is knight ,  dubbed with unhatched rapier and on carpet consideration ,  but he is a devil in private brawl .
i am not mad .
is't not enough, is't not enough, young man, that i did never, no, nor never can, deserve a sweet look from demetrius' eye, but you must flout my insufficiency?
i did ,  my lord .
and even the like precurse of feared events, as harbingers preceding still the fates and prologue to the omen coming on, have heaven and earth together demonstrated unto our climature and countrymen.
how now ,  worthy soldier ?
that's one of them .
sleep a little .
i am not i, if there be such an ‘i’; or those eyes shut that make thee answer ‘i.’ if he be slain, say ‘i’; or if not, ‘no.’ brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
right.
so our leader’s led ,  and we are women’s men .
o rejoice beyond a common joy !
she wakes .
every one prepare to follow this fair corse unto her grave .
pour on ,  i will endure .
in his bosom ?
know’st thou not that i have fined these bones of mine for ransom ?
my spirits are nimble .
i know not what may fall; i like it not.
here comes the lady; let her witness it .
well ,  proceed .
the strings, my lord, are false.
most royal majesty ,  i crave no more than hath your highness offered .
why ,  now ,  blow wind ,  swell billow ,  and swim bark !
upon mine honour ,  sir ,  i heard a humming ,  and that a strange one too ,  which did awake me .
ay ,  or any show that you will show him .
be by ,  good madam ,  when we do awake him .
smile you my speeches as i were a fool ?
you cram these words into mine ears against the stomach of my sense .
even he .
orlando ,  my liege ,  the youngest son of sir rowland de boys .
well ,  sit we down ,  and let us hear bernardo speak of this .
oh ,  defend me !
have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
go then ,  my mother; to thy daughter go .
we will try it .
why ,  may one ask ?
good madam ,  do .
it was.
he ,  sir .
if any, speak, for him have i offended.
but i have spoke with one that saw him die ,  who did report that very frankly he confessed his treasons ,  implored your highness' pardon ,  and set forth a deep repentance .
who is't you mean?
yield up, o love, thy crown and hearted throne to tyrannous hate!
why, there thou say'st!
free ,  madam ,  no .
all's one .
peace there !
where the bee sucks, there suck i: in a cowslip's bell i lie; there i couch when owls do cry.
what noise is this ?
my duty cannot suffer to obey in all your daughters' hard commands .
you are keen, my lord, you are keen.
this casket threatens: men that hazard all do it in hope of fair advantages: a golden mind stoops not to shows of dross; i'll then nor give ,  nor hazard ,  aught for lead .
o treacherous villains !
to flatter caesar ,  would you mingle eyes with one that ties his points ?
ay .
come on ,  i' god’s name ,  once more toward our father’s .
wherefore ?
ourself will mingle with society and play the humble host .
a right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
what hands are here?
we must follow the leaders .
what should be spoken here, where our fate, hid in an auger-hole, may rush and seize us?
i stretch it out for that word ‘broad , ’ which ,  added to the goose ,  proves thee far and wide a broad goose .
so will i turn her virtue into pitch ,  and out of her own goodness make the net that shall enmesh them all .
upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit; for 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd sole monarch of the universal earth .
only i have left to say ,  more is thy due than more than all can pay .
or shall we on without apology ?
if swift thought break it not ,  a swifter mean shall outstrike thought ,  but thought will do ’t ,  i feel .
what should we say ,  my lord ?
pretty!
grumio ,  my horse .
this ,  casca; this ,  cinna; and this ,  metellus cimber .
i will kiss thy lips .
i think the sun where he was born drew all such humors from him .
nay ,  good my lord ,  this courtesy is not of the right breed .
mark.
ay ,  if messala will prefer me to you .
to what issue will this come?
well ,  that is the dowry of his wife; ’tis none of his own getting .
mass, i cannot tell.
an eagle ,  madam ,  hath not so green ,  so quick ,  so fair an eye as paris hath .
what's hecuba to him, or he to hecuba, that he should weep for her?
are you he ?
your lordship is right welcome back to denmark .
twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen ,  and now i find report a very liar .
how dost thou and thy master agree?
he ,  upon some action ,  is now in durance at malvolio’s suit ,  a gentleman and follower of my lady’s .
ay ,  and twenty such .
i am the drudge ,  and toil in your delight; but you shall bear the burden soon at night .
o ,  cleave ,  my sides !
you pay him then .
and ask no other dowry with her but such another jest .
what must be shall be .
flower of this purple dye, hit with cupid's archery, sink in apple of his eye.
i will carry no crotchets .
room, ho!
you have among you killed a sweet and innocent lady .
why ,  well .
madam ,  with all my heart .
look to the lady .
and at her late being here she gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks to noble edmund .
barnardo has my place .
i fear thee!
your wife octavia ,  with her modest eyes and still conclusion ,  shall acquire no honor demuring upon me .
i do not well understand that.
where?
myself and what is mine to you and yours is now converted .
these griefs and losses have so bated me ,  that i shall hardly spare a pound of flesh tomorrow to my bloody creditor . — well ,  jailer ,  on . —pray god bassanio come to see me pay his debt ,  and then i care not .
what makes that frontlet on ?
what ,  frighted with false fire ?
peter !
marry ,  come up ,  i trow .
any bar ,  any cross ,  any impediment will be med'cinable to me .
thou art sure of me .
there is no terror, cassius, in your threats, for i am arm'd so strong in honesty, that they pass by me as the idle wind which i respect not.
be it so .
for i am sick when i do look on thee .
a fig!
go with me to the vault .
let us toward the king.
why ,  this it is when men are ruled by women .
nurse !
his affections do not that way tend; nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little, was not like madness.
i have a salt and sorry rheum offends me; lend me thy handkerchief.
was not that letter from fair jessica ?
he is not lolling on a lewd love bed ,  but on his knees at meditation; not dallying with a brace of courtesans ,  but meditating with two deep divines; not sleeping ,  to engross his idle body ,  but praying ,  to enrich his watchful soul .
i cry you mercy .
if that be all ,  masters ,  i hear no harm .
and it is marvel he out-dwells his hour, for lovers ever run before the clock.
what though i be not so in grace as you— so hung upon with love ,  so fortunate— but miserable most ,  to love unloved ?
a tomb must cover thy sweet eyes.
i ,  measuring his affections by my own ,  which then most sought where most might not be found ,  being one too many by my weary self— pursu'd my humour ,  not pursuing his ,  and gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me .
i’ll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle .
come ,  shall we fall to work ?
what news ?
the treacherous instrument is in thy hand ,  unbated and envenomed .
ay ,  gentle cousin ,  were it light enough .
let us seek out some desolate shade and there weep our sad bosoms empty .
now, whether it be bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple of thinking too precisely on the event— a thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom and ever three parts coward—i do not know why yet i live to say 'this thing's to do,' sith i have cause, and will, and strength, and means to do't.
as they pass by, pluck casca by the sleeve, and he will, after his sour fashion, tell you what hath proceeded worthy note today.
take heed ,  signior baptista ,  lest you be cony - catched in this business .
it was his bidding; therefore ,  good emilia ,  give me my nightly wearing ,  and adieu .
that they were ,  i wish myself were mudded in that oozy bed where my son lies . —when did you lose your daughter ?
o dear!
so ho !
peter quince— what sayest thou ,  bully bottom ?
your gambols ?
in your dumps ?
there are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered.
let them not live to taste this land’s increase ,  that would with treason wound this fair land’s peace .
the rest shall keep as they are .
my hounds are bred out of the spartan kind ,  so flew'd ,  so sanded; and their heads are hung with ears that sweep away the morning dew; crook - knee'd and dew - lapp'd like thessalian bulls; slow in pursuit ,  but match'd in mouth like bells ,  each under each .
alas, poor yorick!
advise yourself .
o heavy day !
if he do resist, subdue him at his peril.
where is my lord ?
how now ,  tubal ?
with all my heart ,  and it doth much content me to hear him so inclin'd .
hang her !
ay, ay, the cords.
when he is gone ,  i would on great occasion speak with you .
he says, for brutus' sake, he finds himself beholding to us all.
it does ,  my boy .
come to me ,  that of this i may speak more .
take from them now the sense of reck'ning ere th' opposèd numbers pluck their hearts from them .
love looks not with the eyes ,  but with the mind; and therefore is wing'd cupid painted blind .
he is my prisoner .
no king of england if not king of france .
the dropsy drown this fool!
o, fie!
i'll do't ,  but it dislikes me .
get me a taper in my study ,  lucius .
motley’s the only wear .
what, is the fellow mad?
it cannot be .
tarry ,  sweet soul ,  for mine; then fly abreast ,  as in this glorious and well - foughten field we kept together in our chivalry .  ”  upon these words i came and cheered him up .
a thursday be it then.
she’s cold .
oh !
i know the boy will well usurp the grace ,  voice ,  gait ,  and action of a gentlewoman .
cannot a plain man live and think no harm ,  but thus his simple truth must be abused with silken ,  sly ,  insinuating jacks ?
and golden phoebus never be beheld of eyes again so royal !
you press me far, and therefore i will yield.
ho, lucilius!
nay, come, let's go together.
we will ,  we will !
thy father hath his life .
he swore he would never marry ,  and yet now ,  in despite of his heart ,  he eats his meat without grudging .
thou know’st my lodging .
o jephthah ,  judge of israel ,  what a treasure hadst thou !
truly then i fear you are damned both by father and mother: thus when i shun scylla, your father, i fall into charybdis, your mother: well, you are gone both ways.
but i perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty that you will not extort from me what i am willing to keep in .
i wonder of their being here together .
is this the king we sent to for his ransom ?
soft, by and by.
go sleep ,  and hear us .
that nothing do but meditate on blood ,  to swearing and stern looks ,  diffused attire ,  and everything that seems unnatural .
what dost thou mean ?
the earth hath bubbles as the water has ,  and these are of them .
why have you stol’n upon us thus ?
affection?
knock knock knock ,  knock ,  knock !
in nothing am i changed but in my garments .
but there’s no bottom ,  none ,  in my voluptuousness .
but how hath she receiv'd his love ?
pardon me ,  caesar ,  for my dear dear love to your proceeding bids me tell you this ,  and reason to my love is liable .
good morrow ,  father .
what ,  curio ?
he may win ,  and what is music then ?
bring it to that ,  the gold i give thee will i melt and pour down thy ill - uttering throat .
but brutus says he was ambitious ,  and brutus is an honorable man .
all these are portable ,  with other graces weigh'd .
meantime i writ to romeo that he should hither come as this dire night to help to take her from her borrowed grave, being the time the potion's force should cease.
hold thy desperate hand.
i am the king himself .
welcome ,  my good friends .
infected be the air whereon they ride, and damn'd all those that trust them!
there are no tongues else for ’s turn .
what if i had said i had seen him do you wrong ?
i grant him bloody, luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful, sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin that has a name.
we came hither to fight with you .
let but the commons hear this testament— which, pardon me, i do not mean to read— and they would go and kiss dead caesar's wounds and dip their napkins in his sacred blood, yea, beg a hair of him for memory, and, dying, mention it within their wills, bequeathing it as a rich legacy unto their issue.
do you love me, master?
indeed they say the senators tomorrow mean to establish caesar as a king ,  and he shall wear his crown by sea and land ,  in every place save here in italy .
here comes your father .
but ,  brother ,  i can tell you strange news that you yet dreamt not of .
o, these men, these men!
so is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
what says polonius ?
coward, why com'st thou not?
why, anything, but to the purpose.
spirits ,  which by mine art i have from their confines called to enact my present fancies .
and i must be from thence !
this deed will be well welcome to lorenzo .
give me ,  give me !
you must not look so sour .
what's this to my lysander ?
for ever ,  and for ever ,  farewell ,  cassius !
be bold ,  and take thy stand .
i drink to the general joy o’ the whole table, and to our dear friend banquo, whom we miss.
ay ,  noble lord .
i pray you ,  see him presently discharged ,  for he is bound to sea ,  and stays but for it .
jove and my stars be praised !
and so ,  god be with him !
i am sent before to make a fire ,  and they are coming after to warm them .
hark ,  they roar !
the law hath yet another hold on you .
is ’t come to this ?
i saw him once .
o cursed, cursed slave!
what enterprise ,  popillius ?
god and our good cause fight upon our side .
must i speak now?
i see no blood, no wound.
came you ,  from padua ,  from bellario ?
this is one lucianus, nephew to the king.
and mine ,  two hundred .
the woman falls; sure ,  he hath kill'd his wife .
my honour'd lord ,  you know right well you did ,  and with them words of so sweet breath compos'd as made the things more rich .
excellent ,  i' faith ,  of the chameleon’s dish .
therefore be cheered .
the king is not to answer it .
marry, i would not do such a thing for a jointring, nor for measures of lawn, nor for gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any petty exhibition; but, for the whole world why, who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch?
obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
the starry welkin cover thou anon with drooping fog as black as acheron ,  and lead these testy rivals so astray as one come not within another’s way .
why ,  ’tis good to be sad and say nothing .
words without thoughts never to heaven go.
signior, it is the moor.
you see how simple and how fond i am .
why ,  thou peevish sheep ,  what ship of epidamnum stays for me ?
do you understand me?
i do believe ’twas he .
from henceforth i will ,  coz ,  and devise sports .
this dagger hath mista'en—for ,  lo ,  his house is empty on the back of montague ,  and it mis - sheathèd in my daughter’s bosom .
give me my long sword, ho!
poor soul !
i will discharge it in either your straw - color beard ,  your orange - tawny beard ,  your purple - in - grain beard ,  or your french crown - color beard ,  your perfect yellow .
hast thou the pretty worm of nilus there ,  that kills and pains not ?
but i am very sorry ,  good horatio ,  that to laertes i forgot myself ,  for by the image of my cause i see the portraiture of his .
you are passing welcome ,  and so i pray you all to think yourselves .
see for the news .
after dinner your hazard shall be made .
thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
a man that had a wife with such a wit ,  he might say  “ wit ,  whither wilt ?  ”   nay ,  you might keep that check for it ,  till you met your wife’s wit going to your neighbor’s bed .
be not so .
i am glad on ’t .
i do but say what she is .
i will be here again, even with a thought.
i am cinna the poet, i am cinna the poet.
and your reports have set the murder on .
away before me to sweet beds of flowers .
thy adversary’s wife doth pray for thee .
briefness and fortune ,  work ! — brother ,  a word .
be patient ,  for the world is broad and wide .
fie ,  fie ,  ’tis lewd and filthy !
i charge thee ,  hence ,  and do not haunt me thus .
i knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
yea, from the table of my memory i'll wipe away all trivial fond records, all saws of books, all forms, all pressures past, that youth and observation copied there; and thy commandment all alone shall live within the book and volume of my brain, unmix'd with baser matter.
i dreamt a dream to-night.
tis not to make me jealous to say my wife is fair ,  feeds well ,  loves company ,  is free of speech ,  sings ,  plays ,  and dances .
thou dost here usurp the name thou ow'st not; and hast put thyself upon this island as a spy ,  to win it from me ,  the lord on't .
i ,  thus neglecting worldly ends ,  all dedicated to closeness and the bettering of my mind with that which ,  but by being so retired ,  o'er prized all popular rate ,  in my false brother awakened an evil nature; and my trust ,  like a good parent ,  did beget of him a falsehood ,  in its contrary as great as my trust was ,  which had indeed no limit ,  a confidence sans bound .
tis a knavish piece of work; but what o' that ?
it wearies me; you say it wearies you .
therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me .
there's rue for you, and here's some for me.
these vows are hermia's .
aroint thee ,  witch !  ”  the rump - fed runnion cries .
my remedy is then to pluck it out .
ready.
how have i been behaved, that he might stick the small'st opinion on my least misuse?
i am for the air .
she dies for ’t . —eros ,  ho !
o the pernicious caitiff !
now, what my love is, proof hath made you know; and as my love is sized, my fear is so.
let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
to alonso] how fares my gracious sir ?
but for a satisfaction of my thought; no further harm .
which dreams indeed are ambition ,  for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream .
his bark is stoutly timbered and his pilot of very expert and approved allowance therefore my hopes ,  not surfeited to death ,  stand in bold cure .
let me comply with you in this garb ,  lest my extent to the players—which ,  i tell you ,  must show fairly outwards—should more appear like entertainment than yours .
who's there ?
how smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience !
be assured you may .
the even mead ,  that erst brought sweetly forth the freckled cowslip ,  burnet ,  and green clover ,  wanting the scythe ,  withal uncorrected ,  rank ,  conceives by idleness ,  and nothing teems but hateful docks ,  rough thistles ,  kecksies ,  burrs ,  losing both beauty and utility .
i will not sleep ,  hortensio ,  till i see her ,  and therefore let me be thus bold with you to give you over at this first encounter ,  unless you will accompany me thither .
here i stand ,  your slave— a poor ,  infirm ,  weak ,  and despised old man .
if our father carry authority with such dispositions as he bears ,  this last surrender of his will but offend us .
wherefore weep you?
think, my lord?
none that i more love than myself .
i shall fall .
i, measuring his affections by my own, which then most sought where most might not be found, being one too many by my weary self— pursu'd my humour, not pursuing his, and gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
shall i lay perjury upon my soul ?
ah sir ,  ah sir .
to sebastian] true ,  save means to live .
octavius ,  then take him to follow thee ,  that did the latest service to my master .
my lord, i cannot.
i must go with you to belmont .
you all do know this mantle.
where’s publius ?
lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be.
besides ,  i like you not .
patience ,  gentle audrey .
i am cinna the poet ,  i am cinna the poet .
the life ?
right glad i am he was not at this fray .
i pray you ,  pardon me; i cannot speak .
we shall ,  my lord ,  perform what you command us .
how answer you that?
i rather will subject me to the malice of a diverted blood and bloody brother .
but look ,  amazement on thy mother sits .
look ,  he stirs .
you shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you will give me occasion.
turn up on your right hand at the next turning ,  but ,  at the next turning of all ,  on your left; marry ,  at the very next turning ,  turn of no hand ,  but turn down indirectly to the jew's house .
have you importun'd him by any means ?
nay, gentle romeo, we must have you dance.
what’s the matter ?
we’ll teach you to drink deep ere you depart .
help to dress me ,  good coz ,  good meg ,  good ursula .
didst thou not hear a noise ?
we had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth .
for this same lord ,  i do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so ,  to punish me with this ,  and this with me ,  that i must be their scourge and minister .
no .
what are these faces ?
did you send to him ,  sir ?
as i am an honest man ,  he looks pale . —art thou sick ,  or angry ?
now near enough .
how does my wife?
didst thou behold octavia ?
what wouldst thou with us ?
what ,  ho !
yet hear me, countrymen; yet hear me speak.
she wakes.
by my head, here come the capulets.
you are the singer.
some god direct my judgment !
lie with her—that’s fulsome .
the sun is high ,  and we outwear the day .
i know not, sir.
who comes with her ?
by your patience ,  i needs must rest me .
so was i when your highness banished him .
tis all one .
brutus shall lead ,  and we will grace his heels with the most boldest and best hearts of rome .
i could interpret between you and your love ,  if i could see the puppets dallying .
o lamentable day!
that’s a certain text .
hail ,  most dear caesar !
when we shall meet at compt, this look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven, and fiends will snatch at it.
accursed be that tongue that tells me so ,  for it hath cow'd my better part of man !
i am poison'd .
perchance he will not mind me .
hold ,  for your lives !
this ,  by his voice ,  should be a montague .
i do not, till you practise them on me.
since my young lady’s going into france ,  sir ,  the fool hath much pined away .
an please your majesty ,  let his neck answer for it ,  if there is any martial law in the world .
away !
i will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a challenge .
the best in this kind are but shadows ,  and the worst are no worse if imagination amend them .
what ,  art thou waking ?
some villain hath done me wrong .
only i yield to die.
will you walk, sir?
he's fat, and scant of breath.
if i did think ,  sir ,  i were well awake i'd strive to tell you .
upon my soul ,  a lie ,  a wicked lie .
and though she be but little ,  she is fierce .
i know the man .
carthage ?
young fortinbras ,  with conquest come from poland ,  to th' ambassadors of england gives this warlike volley .
though thou canst swim like a duck, thou art made like a goose.
but with a rearward following tybalt's death, ‘romeo is banished’— to speak that word is father, mother, tybalt, romeo, juliet, all slain, all dead.
do you not remember ,  lady ,  in your father’s time a venetian ,  a scholar and a soldier ,  that came hither in company of the marquess of montferrat ?
before my body i throw my warlike shield .
excellent well.
say boldly .
how ill this taper burns !
tell him so yourself ,  and see how he will take it at your hands .
had i great juno’s power ,  the strong - winged mercury should fetch thee up and set thee by jove’s side .
is it two days ago since i tripped up thy heels and beat thee before the king ?
speak within door .
and that most deeply to consider is the beauty of his daughter .
i was enforc'd to send it after him; i was beset with shame and courtesy; my honour would not let ingratitude so much besmear it .
she is damned for it .
you are jealous now that this is from some mistress, some remembrance: no, by my faith, bianca.
tis better thee without than he within.
o god ,  horatio ,  what a wounded name ,  things standing thus unknown ,  shall live behind me !
methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is perfect gallows.
had i a glass ,  i would .
no ,  by heaven .
but i do see you're moved; i am to pray you not to strain my speech to grosser issues ,  nor to larger reach than to suspicion .
is not that he ?
call ,  good mercutio .
do we but find the tyrant's power tonight ,  let us be beaten ,  if we cannot fight .
forgive me this my virtue; for in the fatness of these pursy times virtue itself of vice must pardon beg yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
what ,  art thou hurt ?
then learn this of me: to have is to have .
thou hast not half that power to do me harm as i have to be hurt .
tell him so yourself ,  and see how he will take it at your hands .
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
i’ll go with you .
and with such maimed rites ?
o courteous tybalt !
but here's my husband ,  and so much duty as my mother show'd to you ,  preferring you before her father ,  so much i challenge that i may profess due to the moor ,  my lord .
amen ,  amen .
soft ,  sir !
i pray you mar no more of my verses with reading them ill -  favoredly .
nothing .
mislike me not for my complexion, the shadowed livery of the burnish'd sun, to whom i am a neighbour, and near bred.
for mine own part ,  i shall be glad to learn of noble men .
you need not fear ,  lady ,  the having any of these lords .
prithee ,  my king ,  be quiet .
what bastard doth not ?
begin, murderer.
but with a rearward following tybalt’s death ,   “ romeo is banishèd .  ”  to speak that word ,  is father ,  mother ,  tybalt ,  romeo ,  juliet ,  all slain ,  all dead .
monday!
what, frighted with false fire?
where is our usual manager of mirth ?
i rather choose to wrong the dead ,  to wrong myself and you ,  than i will wrong such honorable men .
or ,  if thou wilt ,  swear by thy gracious self ,  which is the god of my idolatry ,  and i’ll believe thee .
a sovereign shame so elbows him .
why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
up to the breach ,  you dogs !
sometime i’d divide ,  and burn in many places .
no ,  madam ,  no .
my plenteous joys ,  wanton in fullness ,  seek to hide themselves in drops of sorrow .
something ,  sure ,  of state ,  either from venice ,  or some unhatched practice made demonstrable here in cyprus to him ,  hath puddled his clear spirit ,  and in such cases men’s natures wrangle with inferior things ,  though great ones are their object .
her name is portia ,  nothing undervalued to cato’s daughter ,  brutus' portia .
why ,  horns ,  which such as you are fain to be beholding to your wives for .
be the jacks fair within ,  the jills fair without ,  the carpets laid ,  and everything in order ?
how does hamlet ?
no thisbe do i see .
your statue spouting blood in many pipes, 90 in which so many smiling romans bathed, signifies that from you great rome shall suck reviving blood, and that great men shall press for tinctures, stains, relics, and cognizance.
tomorrow, if you please to speak with me, i will come home to you, or, if you will, come home to me and i will wait for you.
help!
my back o’ t’ other side , —ah ,  my back ,  my back !
come ,  sisters ,  cheer we up his sprites ,  and show the best of our delights .
knock knock knock ,  knock ,  knock ,  knock !
ay ,  madam .
my brother’s servants were then my fellows .
how does my bounteous sister ?
oh ,  i have heard him speak of that same brother ,  and he did render him the most unnatural that lived amongst men .
whither away ?
i am sure no man hath any quarrel to me .
i lack iniquity sometimes to do me service.
i have done my work ill ,  friends .
let me hire him too . —here’s my coxcomb .
farewell .
hark you ,  guildenstern ,  and you too—at each ear a hearer .
not i .
nay ,  i know not .
remember march ,  the ides of march remember .
but look thou stay not till the watch be set ,  for then thou canst not pass to mantua ,  where thou shalt live till we can find a time to blaze your marriage ,  reconcile your friends ,  beg pardon of the prince ,  and call thee back with twenty hundred thousand times more joy than thou went'st forth in lamentation .
thou liest; thou canst not.
why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady ?
if thou beest stephano ,  touch me and speak to me .
no ,  not a whit .
o ,  he is even in my mistress’ case ,  just in her case !
but then i saw no harm ,  and then i heard each syllable that breath made up between them .
how foolish do your fears seem now, calpurnia!
it weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each new day a gash is added to her wounds .
i prithee ,  remember i have done thee worthy service ,  told thee no lies ,  made thee no mistakings ,  served without or grudge or grumblings .
hear me yet ,  good shylock .
we must die ,  messala .
dost thou hear ?
would i were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
the other did not so .
but yet do i believe the origin and commencement of his grief sprung from neglected love . —how now ,  ophelia ?
how chance the roses there do fade so fast?
say again: where didst thou leave these variets?
some of your french crowns have no hair at all, and then you will play barefaced.
speak .
dear master ,  i can go no further .
how am i false ?
i have lived long enough .
then every soldier kill his prisoners .
come ,  you deceive yourself .
make the trial of it in any constant question .
this prince hath neither claimed it nor deserved it and therefore ,  in mine opinion ,  cannot have it .
alas ,  alas !
he ,  he ,  ’tis he .
look i so pale ,  lord dorset ,  as the rest ?
ascend her chamber ,  hence ,  and comfort her .
domestic fury and fierce civil strife shall cumber all the parts of italy .
o ,  wonderful !
is there no voice more worthy than my own, to sound more sweetly in great caesar's ear for the repealing of my banish'd brother?
i’ll bring you to him .
o ,  they did urge it still unto the king .
she now shall be my sister ,  not my wife .
be not disturbed with my infirmity .
trust me, sweet, out of this silence yet i picked a welcome; and in the modesty of fearful duty i read as much as from the rattling tongue of saucy and audacious eloquence.
come, gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends and let them know both what we mean to do and what's untimely done.
come hither, sirrah.
think upon vaughan ,  and with guilty fear let fall thy lance .
good hamlet, cast thy nighted color off, and let thine eye look like a friend on denmark.
nay ,  that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it .
was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed, that you do lie so late?
antonio ,  i am married to a wife ,  which is as dear to me as life itself; but life itself ,  my wife ,  and all the world are not with me esteem'd above thy life; i would lose all ,  ay ,  sacrifice them all here to this devil ,  to deliver you .
this must crave— an if this be at all—a most strange story .
your brother—no ,  no brother—yet the son— yet not the son ,  i will not call him son— of him i was about to call his father hath heard your praises ,  and this night he means to burn the lodging where you use to lie ,  and you within it .
thy drugs are quick.
thus i’ll visit her .
so please you ,  we will stand and watch your pleasure .
we'll hear a play to - morrow .
where is my lady ?
why does the drum come hither ?
pray ,  give me that; i'll carry it to the pile .
what ,  shall this speech be spoke for our excuse ?
obey you ,  love you ,  and most honor you .
when i know the gentleman ,  i’ll tell him what you say .
can you deny all this ?
here comes one .
and these does she apply for warnings and portents and evils imminent ,  and on her knee hath begg'd that i will stay at home today .
imperious caesar ,  dead and turned to clay ,  might stop a hole to keep the wind away .
ah me !
thou didst prevent me; i had peopled else this isle with calibans .
do you think i meant country matters ?
tis almost morning .
stay ,  then .
now ,  darting parthia ,  art thou struck ,  and now pleased fortune does of marcus crassus’ death make me revenger .
quickly let me have it .
my most dear gloucester !
then i will kiss your lips ,  kate .
why, here in denmark.
look in my face .
almost as bad, good mother, as kill a king, and marry with his brother.
enter ,  sir ,  the castle .
when valor preys on reason ,  it eats the sword it fights with .
o treacherous villains!
let him do his spite .
well then, now have you consider'd of my speeches?
in my school days ,  when i had lost one shaft ,  i shot his fellow of the selfsame flight the selfsame way with more advisèd watch to find the other forth—and by adventuring both ,  i oft found both .
down with the capulets !
is it not hero ?
tis in my memory locked ,  and you yourself shall keep the key of it .
then, my queen, in silence sad, trip we after night's shade.
i am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my beck than i have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give them shape, or time to act them in.
therefore i have entreated him along with us to watch the minutes of this night, that if again this apparition come he may approve our eyes and speak to it.
and you shall be satisfied.
dry up in her the organs of increase ,  and from her derogate body never spring a babe to honor her .
hail to thee ,  thane of glamis !
who knocks so hard?
you may, indeed, say so; for 'twas that hand that gave away my heart.
descend ,  brother ,  i say .
i mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
let him greet england with our sharp defiance .
it is enacted in the laws of venice ,  if it be proved against an alien that by direct or indirect attempts he seek the life of any citizen ,  the party 'gainst the which he doth contrive shall seize one half his goods .
well ,  be it so .
hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
i crave your highness’ pardon .
urge me no more ,  i shall forget myself .
what's this ?
be thou assured, good cassio, i will do all my abilities in thy behalf.
but what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed ,  one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself ?
peace, who comes here?
what do you see ?
and ,  good lieutenant ,  i think you think i love you .
now all the blessings of a glad father compass thee about !
indeed ,  i should have ask'd you that before .
a horned man's a monster and a beast.
haste me to know ’t ,  that i ,  with wings as swift as meditation or the thoughts of love ,  may sweep to my revenge .
but in your daughter’s womb i bury them ,  where ,  in that nest of spicery ,  they will breed selves of themselves ,  to your recomforture .
come thee on .
o bear me witness ,  night— what man is this ?
ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that which might appal the devil.
what’s the matter ?
o cousin ,  cousin !
my lord ,  i do not know that i did cry .
doubtful it stood ,  as two spent swimmers that do cling together and choke their art .
where is my lady ?
he hath assembled bocchus ,  the king of libya; archelaus ,  of cappadocia; philadelphos ,  king of paphlagonia; the thracian king ,  adallas; king manchus of arabia; king of pont; herod of jewry; mithridates ,  king of comagen; polemon and amyntas ,  the kings of mede and lycaonia ,  with a more larger list of scepters .
my good friends, i'll leave you till night.
look you, sir, inquire me first what danskers are in paris, and how, and who, what means, and where they keep, what company, at what expense; and finding by this encompassment and drift of question that they do know my son, come you more nearer than your particular demands will touch it.
come ,  come ,  the cause .
save me and hover o'er me with your wings ,  you heavenly guards !
ay.
here comes your father .
believe not so .
i pray you ,  master ,  tell me ?
murder !
o, from this time forth, my thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
beseech you ,  father .
therefore the winds, piping to us in vain, as in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea contagious fogs; which, falling in the land, hath every pelting river made so proud that they have overborne their continents.
take it thankfully .
i shall have glory by this losing day, more than octavius and mark antony by this vile conquest shall attain unto.
let her not walk i' th' sun .
what cursèd foot wanders this way tonight to cross my obsequies and true love’s rite ?
you may to me, and ’tis most meet you should.
my liege .
an i might live to see thee married once ,  i have my wish .
no .
where do you dwell ?
light!
yes ,  a dozen ,  and as many to the vantage as would store the world they played for .
and look when i am king ,  claim thou of me the earldom of hereford ,  and all the moveables whereof the king my brother was possessed .
and how doth she?
ere the bat hath flown his cloister'd flight; ere to black hecate's summons the shard - borne beetle with his drowsy hums hath rung night's yawning peal ,  there shall be done a deed of dreadful note .
never at quiet !
not dead ?
i stay too long .
why ,  man ?
do this suddenly ,  and let not search and inquisition quail to bring again these foolish runaways .
by mine honor i will ,  and when i break that oath ,  let me turn monster .
more shall they speak ,  for now i am bent to know ,  by the worst means ,  the worst .
i think i hear them . —stand ,  ho !
down ,  and swear .
cousins ,  i hope the days are near at hand that chambers will be safe .
could not this make thee know ,  the hate i bare thee made me leave thee so ?
and you ,  fair sister .
he misses not much .
i see you all are bent to set against me for your merriment .
fare you well ,  sir .
i hope we have reformed that indifferently with us ,  sir .
your majesty shall mock at me .
an honest tale speeds best being plainly told .
ay ,  so i fear; the more is my unrest .
fool!
a beast that wants discourse of reason would have mourn'd longer—married with my uncle ,  my father's brother ,  but no more like my father than i to hercules .
then none have i offended .
what in your own part can you say to this?
then i defy you ,  stars !
methought i lay worse than the mutines in the bilboes .
now ,  iras ,  what think’st thou ?
a noise of thunder heard] [a noise of thunder heard] his spirits hear me ,  and yet i needs must curse .
lead away .
things without all remedy should be without regard .
some to ligarius' .
nay ,  i care not for their names .
hear my excuse .
shall i know your answer ?
one word more shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee.
it’s nine o'clock .
nay ,  good ,  be patient .
what, paris too?
i will ,  my hermia .
what do you think of marching to philippi presently?
presently away ,  for to strange sores strangely they strain the cure . — come ,  lady ,  die to live .
are there not stones in heaven but what serve for thunder ?
god save your majesty .
why ,  if two gods should play some heavenly match and on the wager lay two earthly women ,  and portia one ,  there must be something else pawned with the other ,  for the poor rude world hath not her fellow .
good master fabian ,  grant me another request .
i have a daughter—have while she is mine— who in her duty and obedience ,  mark ,  hath given me this .
what, are you hurt, lieutenant?
it is  “ music with her silver sound ”  because musicians have no gold for sounding .
why does the world report that kate doth limp ?
dismiss your attendant there ,  look ’t be done .
what ,  shall i find you here ?
tranio ,  let’s go .
what hempen home-spuns have we swagg'ring here, so near the cradle of the fairy queen?
a diamond gone ,  cost me two thousand ducats in frankfort !
caesar did write for him to come to rome.
then gave i her (so tutored by my art) a sleeping potion; which so took effect as i intended, for it wrought on her the form of death.
but truly ,  for mine own part ,  if i were as tedious as a king ,  i could find it in my heart to bestow it all of your worship .
let it suffice thee that i trust thee not .
shed thou no blood; nor cut thou less, nor more, but just a pound of flesh: if thou tak'st more, or less, than a just pound,—be it but so much as makes it light, or heavy, in the substance, or the division of the twentieth part of one poor scruple,—nay, if the scale do turn but in the estimation of a hair,— thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate.
my hour is almost come when i to sulfurous and tormenting flames must render up myself .
o thou dull moor !
no ,  truly .
no, his mouth is stopp'd; honest iago hath ta'en order for't.
hang him instantly .
though we have spent our harvest of this king ,  we are to reap the harvest of his son .
twere damnation to think so base a thought .
dear general ,  i never gave you cause .
our tongue is rough ,  coz ,  and my condition is not smooth ,  so that ,  having neither the voice nor the heart of flattery about me ,  i cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in her that he will appear in his true likeness .
we never valued this poor seat of england and therefore ,  living hence ,  did give ourself to barbarous license ,  as ’tis ever common that men are merriest when they are from home .
your betters ,  sir .
wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ?
peace, you were best.
and cassius too .
bliss be upon you !
what news more ?
you ,  mistress ,  all this coil is 'long of you .
i gave my love a ring ,  and made him swear never to part with it; and here he stands , — i dare be sworn for him he would not leave it ,  nor pluck it from his finger ,  for the wealth that the world masters .
incapable and shallow innocents ,  you cannot guess who caused your father’s death .
then ,  lest he may ,  prevent .
your father got excellent husbands ,  if a maid could come by them .
get you gone ,  and at the pit of acheron meet me i’ the morning .
sir ,  i obey the mandate ,  and will return to venice .
where is polonius?
very well ,  my lord .
amen, with all my heart!
brutus ,  bait not me ,  i'll not endure it .
seyton!
nod to him ,  elves ,  and do him courtesies .
where is he ?
take our good meaning ,  for our judgment sits five times in that ere once in our five wits .
take up the body.
indeed ?
neither to you nor any one, having no witness to confirm my speech.
and then, sir, does he this—he does—what was i about to say?
i will have nothing else but only this .
no ,  my good lord .
i’ll to dinner .
out o' th' moon ,  i do assure thee .
hear all ,  all see ,  and like her most whose merit most shall be; which ,  amongst view of many ,  mine ,  being one ,  may stand in number ,  though in reck'ning none .
conrade ,  i say !
you, you, ay, you!
come, high or low; thyself and office deftly show!
i will not leave him now till cassio be call'd to him .
my cause is hearted; thine hath no less reason .
i am ashamèd i did yield to them .
how fares my juliet ?
till then ,  enough .
come, we'll in here, tarry for the mourners, and stay dinner.
i may not ,  madam .
o ,  know ,  my name is lost .
beshrew me ,  if i would do such a wrong for the whole world .
longer ,  longer .
god in heaven bless her !
get you to bed ,  faith .
for ,  you know ,  pyramus and thisbe meet by moonlight .
the love that follows us sometime is our trouble ,  which still we thank as love .
how goes ’t ?
to bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else ,  it will feed my revenge .
a man ,  sir .
yea ,  art thou there ?
why may not that be the skull of a lawyer ?
she replied it should be better he became her guest ,  which she entreated .
pass .
it sorts well with your fierceness .
why then ,  good night indeed .
a man ,  as you are .
letters ,  my lord ,  from hamlet .
i can tell what thou wouldst do .
what stay had we but clarence ?
you say he dined at home; the goldsmith here denies that saying .
marry ,  before your ladyship ,  i grant ,  she puts her tongue a little in her heart and chides with thinking .
we therefore have great cause of thankfulness and shall forget the office of our hand sooner than quittance of desert and merit according to the weight and worthiness .
why then i think cassio's an honest man.
confined together in the same fashion as you gave in charge, just as you left them; all prisoners, sir in the lime-grove which weather-fends your cell; they cannot budge till your release.
stay ,  dog ,  for thou shalt hear me .
of honourable reckoning are you both, and pity 'tis you liv'd at odds so long.
only he hath not yet subscribèd this: where your majesty demands that the king of france ,  having any occasion to write for matter of grant ,  shall name your highness in this form and with this addition ,  in french:  nor this i have not ,  brother ,  so denied but your request shall make me let it pass .
most humbly do i take my leave, my lord.
it is too rough, too rude, too boist'rous, and it pricks like thorn.
i would rather have one of your father’s getting .
if you deny them ,  all the land will rue it .
how beauteous mankind is !
i dare pawn down my life for him that he hath wrote this to feel my affection to your honor and to no other pretense of danger .
i marvel our mild husband not met us on the way .
i have heard it over ,  and it is nothing ,  nothing in the world— unless you can find sport in their intents ,  extremely stretched and conned with cru 'l pain to do you service .
peace !
you'll ask me ,  why i rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh ,  than to receive three thousand ducats: i'll not answer that: but ,  say ,  it is my humour .
alas the day !
what's the news from venice ?
would i were in an alehouse in london !
your daughter spent in genoa, as i heard, one night, fourscore ducats!
your lips will feel them the sooner .
a fire ,  good curtis .
come ,  we'll in here ,  tarry for the mourners ,  and stay dinner .
o ,  no ,  he loves me ,  and he holds me dear .
with meditating that she must die once i have the patience to endure it now .
or i ,  i promise thee .
what are they that do play it?
alas ,  alas !
on me ,  whose all not equals edward’s moiety ?
every offence is not a hate at first.
why, all these should be in the lantern; for all these are in the moon.
i conjure you ,  by that which you profess ,  howe'er you come to know it ,  answer me: though you untie the winds and let them fight against the churches ,  though the yeasty waves confound and swallow navigation up ,  though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down ,  though castles topple on their warders’ heads ,  though palaces and pyramids do slope their heads to their foundations ,  though the treasure of nature's germens tumble all together even till destruction sicken ,  answer me to what i ask you .
see ,  here he comes .
but that i am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison house ,  i could a tale unfold whose lightest word would harrow up thy soul ,  freeze thy young blood ,
arm you ,  i pray you ,  to this speedy voyage .
his roguish madness allows itself to any thing .
fie ,  my lord ,  fie !
o young and noble cato ,  art thou down ?
ay ,  but (by your leave) not before me .
tis well for thee that ,  being unseminared ,  thy freer thoughts may not fly forth of egypt .
the point envenom'd too!
well ,  keep me company but two years more ,  thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue .
keep close ,  i thee command .
your hand, salerio.
i pray you tell benedick of it and hear what he will say .
an if you leave me so ,  you do me wrong .
i care not .
most grave brabantio ,  in simple and pure soul i come to you .
face not me .
o ,  for a chair ,  to bear him easily hence !
now when thou wakest with thine own fool's eyes peep.
clubs ,  bills ,  and partisans !
himself .
nothing is good, i see, without respect; methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
room ,  ho !
here's a small trifle of wives: alas ,  fifteen wives is nothing; aleven widows and nine maids ,  is a simple coming - in for one man: and then ,  to 'scape drowning thrice; and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a feather bed; here are simple 'scapes !
the hurt cannot be much .
what's the matter ,  lady ?
but that still use of grief makes wild grief tame ,  my tongue should to thy ears not name my boys till that my nails were anchored in thine eyes ,  and i ,  in such a desp'rate bay of death ,  like a poor bark of sails and tackling reft ,  rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom .
both, both, my girl.
hold ,  take thou that and that .
if our father would sleep till i waked him ,  you should enjoy half his revenue forever ,  and live the beloved of your brother ,        edgar .  ”   hum ,  conspiracy ?
then ,  dreadful trumpet ,  sound the general doom !
can you tell me whether one launcelot that dwells with him ,  dwell with him or no ?
alas ,  poor hurt fowl ,  now will he creep into sedges .
and false .
no more of that.
hail to thee ,  thane of cawdor !
nay ,  good lieutenant; i pray you ,  sir ,  hold your hand .
for the queen ,  i’ll take her to my guard .
that head ,  my lord ?
the king falls from bias of nature—there’s father against child .
what’s the news ?
still harping on my daughter .
how now, my sweet bianca!
arise ,  black vengeance ,  from thy hollow cell !
but ,  o grief ,  where hast thou led me ?
sure we thank you .
what is the matter, my lord?
most heathenish and most gross!
will ’t please you taste of what is here ?
makest thou this shame thy pastime ?
conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
there stays a husband to make you a wife .
i will in cassio's lodging lose this napkin, and let him find it.
their ships are yare ,  yours ,  heavy .
from this time forth i never will speak word .
with nought but truth .
god defend me from these two !
provoke him that he may .
but there's no heed to be taken of them; if caesar had stabbed their mothers ,  they would have done no less .
in youth when i did love ,  did love ,  methought it was very sweet; to contract—o—the time for—a—my behove ,  o ,  methought there—a—was nothing—a meet .
drown thyself?
what is between you ?
but when this ring parts from this finger, then parts life from hence; o, then be bold to say, bassanio's dead.
no .
my lord ,  i do protest—    o ,  do not swear !
but she, being mortal, of that boy did die; and for her sake do i rear up her boy; and for her sake i will not part with him.
tis not to me she speaks .
hail to thee, lady!
yield, or thou diest.
therefore lay bare your bosom.
speak, speak!
are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils, shrunk to this little measure?
youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
i will not do them wrong; i rather choose to wrong the dead ,  to wrong myself and you ,  than i will wrong such honorable men .
his grace looks cheerfully and smooth this morning .
oh ,  who hath done this deed ?
ay ,  what of that ?
or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
my lord, the king your father.
laertes ,  you shall hear them .
tarry, rash wanton; am not i thy lord?
i had a pass with him ,  rapier ,  scabbard ,  and all ,  and he gives me the stuck - in with such a mortal motion ,  that it is inevitable .
in the most high and palmy state of rome ,  a little ere the mightiest julius fell ,  the graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead did squeak and gibber in the roman streets as stars with trains of fire and dews of blood ,  disasters in the sun ,  and the moist star upon whose influence neptune’s empire stands was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse .
i pray thee give it me .
he goes before me, and still dares me on; when i come where he calls, then he is gone.
god be at your table .
ophelia, walk you here.
i am glad that my weak words have struck but thus much show of fire from brutus .
a knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear .
worthy montano ,  you were wont be civil .
that she is worthy ,  i know .
fie, you slug-abed!
but wilt thou hear me how i did proceed?
to stephano] lo, how he mocks me!
thou canst not frown ,  thou canst not look askance ,  nor bite the lip as angry wenches will ,  nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk .
godspeed ,  fair helena !
what would'st thou have with me?
hence !
and when goes hence?
i'll tell the news .
good night, lieutenant, i must to the watch.
liar and slave!
my niece plantagenet led in the hand of her kind aunt of gloucester ?
the first that there did greet my stranger - soul was my great father - in - law ,  renownèd warwick ,  who spake aloud ,   “ what scourge for perjury can this dark monarchy afford false clarence ?  ”  and so he vanished .
let's make us medicines of our great revenge, to cure this deadly grief.
hear antony ,  most noble antony !
away, away, be gone!
therefore ’tis certain he was not ambitious .
the arbitrament is like to be bloody .
go ,  leave me .
our severed navy too have knit again ,  and fleet ,  threat’ning most sealike .
i had rather be a toad, and live upon the vapor of a dungeon, than keep a corner in the thing i love for others' uses.
touch me not so near: i had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth than it should do offense to michael cassio; yet, i persuade myself, to speak the truth shall nothing wrong him.
for this same lord, i do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so, to punish me with this, and this with me, that i must be their scourge and minister.
portia?
thy master is a wise and valiant roman .
take thy face hence.
goodman verges ,  sir ,  speaks a little off the matter .
see where they come .
if thou didst it ,  thou art the nonpareil .
wert thou as young as i ,  juliet thy love ,  an hour but married ,  tybalt murderèd ,  doting like me ,  and like me banishèd ,  then mightst thou speak ,  then mightst thou tear thy hair and fall upon the ground ,  as i do now ,  taking the measure of an unmade grave .
nerissa teaches me what to believe; i'll die for't, but some woman had the ring.
nothing that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my hopes .
this torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
what ,  did caesar swound ?
take up the body .
i will depart in quiet and ,  in despite of mirth ,  mean to be merry .
o my dear brother !
here .
how are they escoted?
make me to see't; or at the least so prove it ,  that the probation bear no hinge nor loop to hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life !
more to know did never meddle with my thoughts .
vent my folly ?
sir ,  i lack advancement .
you see how simple and how fond i am .
methinks i see my cousin's ghost seeking out romeo, that did spit his body upon a rapier's point.
hold!
oh ,  damn her ,  damn her !
help me hence ,  ho !
you are too officious in her behalf that scorns your services .
wherefore did they not that hour destroy us ?
if she should make tender of her love ,  ’tis very possible he’ll scorn it ,  for the man ,  as you know all ,  hath a contemptible spirit .
but here's my husband, and so much duty as my mother show'd to you, preferring you before her father, so much i challenge that i may profess due to the moor, my lord.
my sovereign lord ,  i do beseech your highness to take our brother clarence to your grace .
the boy was the very staff of my age, my very prop.
but so much was our love we would not understand what was most fit ,  but ,  like the owner of a foul disease ,  to keep it from divulging ,  let it feed even on the pith of life .
he ran this way and leapt this orchard wall .
the round world should have shook lions into civil streets and citizens to their dens .
o sinful thought !
valiant othello ,  we must straight employ you against the general enemy ottoman .
of us must pompey presently be sought ,  or else he seeks out us .
our son shall win.
how now ?
we are haunted .
all lost!
look you ,  cassio and my husband !
a most extracting frenzy of mine own from my remembrance clearly banished his .
den it sall also content me .
to sebastian] temperance was a delicate wench .
i thank you most for him .
holy franciscan friar ,  brother ,  ho !
lurk ,  lurk .
mercutio's kinsman ,  noble county paris !
what would you ,  desdemona ?
tis he, that villain romeo.
but if these, as i am sure they do, bear fire enough to kindle cowards and to steel with valor the melting spirits of women, then, countrymen, what need we any spur but our own cause to prick us to redress?
it were well the general were put in mind of it.
here, under leave of brutus and the rest— for brutus is an honorable man; so are they all, all honorable men— come i to speak in caesar's funeral.
the moor hath kill'd my mistress !
never to speak of this that you have heard: swear by my sword.
are they returned ?
you know he does .
let music sound while he doth make his choice .
the valiant never taste of death but once .
how ?
who is it in the press that calls on me ?
but ,  alas ,  caesar must bleed for it .
what, shall one of us, that struck the foremost man of all this world but for supporting robbers, shall we now contaminate our fingers with base bribes and sell the mighty space of our large honors for so much trash as may be grasped thus?
i had a wound here that was like a  “ t ,  ”  but now ’tis made an  “ h .  ”                                                         they do retire .
come hither ,  sirrah .
you may tell every finger i have with my ribs .
well ,  let them rest . —come hither ,  catesby .
what dost thou profess ?
an i were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man should buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
be it so ,  lysander: find you out a bed ,  for i upon this bank will rest my head .
why art thou here ,  come from the farthest step of india ?
yet ,  when we can entreat an hour to serve ,  we would spend it in some words upon that business ,  if you would grant the time .
in sadness, cousin, i do love a woman.
go bid the priests do present sacrifice ,  and bring me their opinions of success .
my dear’st sister !
tell us where ’tis ,  that we may take it thence and bear it to the chapel .
yes ,  as sparrows eagles ,  or the hare the lion .
parting is such sweet sorrow ,  that i shall say good night till it be morrow .
shake it off.
fare you well at once .
you ,  as your business and desire shall point you— for every man has business and desire ,  such as it is—and for my own poor part ,  look you ,  i’ll go pray .
what are you ?
for what purpose ,  love ?
what dost thou think?
it is but change, titinius, for octavius is overthrown by noble brutus' power, as cassius' legions are by antony.
of all men else i have avoided thee .
my husband lives ,  that tybalt would have slain; and tybalt's dead ,  that would have slain my husband .
be thou familiar but by no means vulgar .
believe me ,  i had rather have lost my purse full of crusadoes; and ,  but my noble moor is true of mind and made of no such baseness as jealous creatures are ,  it were enough to put him to ill thinking .
kind souls ,  what ,  weep you when you but behold our caesar’s vesture wounded ?
romeo can ,  though heaven cannot .
o night with hue so black !
why are you silent?
the moor hath killed my mistress !
ay ,  my lord .
what ,  is the fellow mad ?
a wreck past hope he was .
who's there?
saint francis be my speed !
come ,  draw the curtain ,  nerissa .
welcome .
now we'll together ,  and the chance of goodness be like our warranted quarrel !
o most courageous day !
if thou beest trinculo, come forth.
nay ,  lay thee down and roar ,  for thou hast killed the sweetest innocent that e'er did lift up eye .
come ,  come ,  come ,  come ,  give me your hand .
then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
myself ,  he ,  and my sister today did dine together .
are they married, think you?
why i descend into this bed of death is partly to behold my lady's face ,  but chiefly to take thence from her dead finger a precious ring—a ring that i must use in dear employment .
when i spoke that, i was ill-temper'd too.
he says he’ll come .
nay, that's certain.
then is the world one .
every one prepare to follow this fair corse unto her grave .
an it had not fallen flat - long .
proceed ,  proceed .
good night ,  good captain blunt .
ha, ha, ha!
follow my voice; we'll try no manhood here.
how well my comfort is revived by this !
i will catechize the world for him; that is ,  make ques -  tions and by them answer .
i am not what i am .
go fetch my best attires .
poor knave ,  i blame thee not ,  thou art o'erwatch'd .
how hast thou offended ?
i pray thee ,  moralize them .
call claudius and some other of my men, i'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
what hour now ?
yea, a daniel!
i will fetch up your goats ,  audrey .
he says they can do nothing in this kind.
weeping and wailing over tybalt's corse .
my father watches .
to do this is within the compass of man's wit ,  and therefore i will attempt the doing it .
sweets to the sweet!
i knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done .
monday !
wherein we saw thee quietly interred ,  hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws to cast thee up again .
be as your fancies teach you; whate'er you be, i am obedient.
for love of god, forbear him!
i am old and foolish .
a poured a flagon of rhenish on my head once .
why do you dress me in borrowed robes ?
give you good night .
we found him in the churchyard .
this disease is beyond my practice .
we’ll have thee ,  as our rarer monsters are ,  painted on a pole ,  and underwrit ,   “ here may you see the tyrant .  ”       i will not yield ,  to kiss the ground before young malcolm’s feet ,  and to be baited with the rabble’s curse .
poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
henceforth be never number'd among men!
he’s in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest .
he sups tonight with a harlotry ,  and thither will i go to him .
pray heaven it be state matters ,  as you think ,  and no conception nor no jealous toy concerning you .
good night .
you must say  “ paragon .  ”  a  “ paramour ”  is ,  god bless us ,  a thing of naught .
why is this 'impawned , ' as you call it ?
then music with her silver sound with speedy help doth lend redress . ’ what a pestilent knave is this same !
he bears the third part of the world ,  man .
he knows i know him well .
but doth he know that i am in this forest and in man’s apparel ?
you or any man living may be drunk at a time ,  man .
that's not so.
but fish not with this melancholy bait for this fool gudgeon ,  this opinion . — come ,  good lorenzo . —fare ye well awhile .
make haste ,  i say .
or have we eaten on the insane root that takes the reason prisoner ?
may ’t please your majesty to give us leave freely to render what we have in charge ,  or shall we sparingly show you far off the dauphin’s meaning and our embassy ?
stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
stand here ,  make a good show on ’t .
my way is now to hie home to his house and tell his wife that ,  being lunatic ,  he rushed into my house and took perforce my ring away .
an excellent courtesy!
oh ,  if you but knew how you the purpose cherish whiles thus you mock it !
she had a song of “willow”; an old thing 'twas, but it express'd her fortune, and she died singing it.
nothing ,  good monsieur ,  but to help cavalery cobweb to scratch .
i do but say what she is.
nay, i am the very pink of courtesy.
the scripture says adam digged.
is he not honest ?
let me peruse this face .
our army shall in solemn show attend this funeral ,  and then to rome .
so is it ,  if thou knew'st our purposes .
no ,  you unnatural hags ,
will you withdraw?
go thither ,  and with unattainted eye compare her face with some that i shall show ,  and i will make thee think thy swan a crow .
what is the matter here ?
at a word ,  i am not .
i must talk a word with you .
an’t please your honor ,  players that offer service to your lordship .
and these few precepts in thy memory see thou character .
go you and prepare aliena ,  for look you ,  here comes my rosalind .
go ,  rascals ,  go ,  and fetch my supper in .
take up those cords . —poor ropes ,  you are beguiled ,  both you and i ,  for romeo is exiled .
signior brabantio, ho!
i will physic your rankness and yet give no thousand crowns neither . —holla ,  dennis !
meet me and gratiano at gratiano’s lodging some hour hence .
follow the noise so far as we have quarter; let’s see how it will give off .
give me those flowers.
my lord .
there is no world without verona walls but purgatory ,  torture ,  hell itself .
look how our partner’s rapt .
zounds ,  i’ll entreat no more .
why so ,  being gone ,       why so ,  being gone ,  i am a man again .
o, yes, and went between us very oft.
and have not we affections ,  desires for sport ,  and frailty ,  as men have ?
yours, yours.
go apart ,  adam ,  and thou shalt hear how he will shake me up .
if he may be conveniently delivered ,  i would he were ,  for i am now so far in offense with my niece that i cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot .
oh ,  i could play the woman with mine eyes and braggart with my tongue !
must there no more be done?
have i ,  my lord ?
oh ,  i have suffered with those that i saw suffer .
a most high miracle !
ay ,  but not enough .
come ,  away !
and so ,  his knell is knolled .
let her come in .
but she as far surpasseth sycorax as great’st does least .
i did not see you since you sent me hence ,  home to the centaur with the gold you gave me .
would ’t had been done !
i cannot tell .
what good is covered with the face of heaven ,  to be discovered ,  that can do me good ?
so befall my soul as this is false he burdens me withal .
why ,  no ,  sir .
come ,  go with me .
he has no children.
such a one am i to fear, or none.
not caesar’s valor hath o’erthrown antony ,  but antony’s hath triumphed on itself .
she shall not harm thee ,  helena .
they’ll be in scarlet straight at any news .
to which we all appeal .
there to meet with macbeth .
come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
well, what was yours?
why ,  he was met even now as mad as the vexed sea ,  singing aloud ,  crowned with rank fumiter and furrow - weeds ,  with burdocks ,  hemlock ,  nettles ,  cuckoo - flowers ,  darnel ,  and all the idle weeds that grow in our sustaining corn . —a century send forth .
how may the duke be therewith satisfied ,  whose messengers are here about my side upon some present business of the state to bring me to him ?
mark antony— pardon me ,  caius cassius .
you wronged yourself to write in such a case .
but his flawed heart— alack ,  too weak the conflict to support— 'twixt two extremes of passion ,  joy and grief ,  burst smilingly .
the man is notwithstanding sufficient .
let him go, and presently prefer his suit to caesar.
get your apparel together ,  good strings to your beards ,  new ribbons to your pumps .
where is lysander and fair hermia ?
i myself could make a chough of as deep chat .
who knows he is ?
morton is fled to richmond ,  and buckingham ,  backed with the hardy welshmen ,  is in the field ,  and still his power increaseth .
and not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch of merchant-marring rocks?
a likely piece of work that you should find it in your chamber and not know who left it there!
alas ,  too soon we came aboard .
why, for that too.
she that was ever fair and never proud ,  had tongue at will and yet was never loud ,  never lacked gold and yet went never gay ,  fled from her wish and yet said  “ now i may ,  ”  she that being angered ,  her revenge being nigh ,  bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly ,  she that in wisdom never was so frail to change the cod’s head for the salmon’s tail ,  she that could think and ne'er disclose her mind ,  see suitors following and not look behind ,  she was a wight ,  if ever such wights were— to do what ?
lady ,  you know no rules of charity ,  which renders good for bad ,  blessings for curses .
by the apostle paul ,  shadows tonight have struck more terror to the soul of richard than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers armed in proof and led by shallow richmond .
was milan thrust from milan ,  that his issue should become kings of naples ?
tis bitter cold ,  and i am sick at heart .
montague !
now my charms are all o'erthrown ,  and what strength i have’s mine own ,  which is most faint .
by jeshu ,  i am your majesty’s countryman ,  i care not who know it .
ish a villain and a basterd and a knave and a rascal .
no ,  let me not .
if i can cross him any way ,  i bless myself every way .
if in thy wisdom thou canst give no help ,  do thou but call my resolution wise and with this knife i'll help it presently .
drunk all, and left no friendly drop to help me after?
when we are born ,  we cry that we are come to this great stage of fools .
let me ,  if not by birth ,  have lands by wit .
go to ,  go to; you have known what you should not .
wo ha, ho!
fellow ,  i know thee .
marry ,  sir .
then will two at once woo one .
and thought they margaret was hero ?
and if you leave me so ,  you do me wrong .
rage ,  blow !
when all's done ,  you look but on a stool .
i’ll never care what wickedness i do ,  if this man come to good .
pray you ,  sir ,  stand up; i am sure you are not launcelot ,  my boy .
o monstrous world!
did you know him ?
was this fair paper ,  this most goodly book ,  made to write  “ whore ”  upon ?
are they like to take dust ,  like mistress mall’s picture ?
is he dispatch'd ?
that’s one of them .
he is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man .
o scotland ,  scotland !
when he is gone i would on great occasion speak with you .
there will we rehearse ,  for if we meet in the city we shall be dogged with company ,  and our devices known .
she’s full of most blessed condition .
what a haste looks through his eyes!
how satisfied ,  my lord ?
susan and she (god rest all christian souls!
i swear to thee, by cupid's strongest bow, by his best arrow, with the golden head, by the simplicity of venus' doves, by that which knitteth souls and prospers loves, and by that fire which burn'd the carthage queen, when the false trojan under sail was seen, by all the vows that ever men have broke, in number more than ever women spoke, in that same place thou hast appointed me, tomorrow truly will i meet with thee.
these are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
the crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark ,  when neither is attended; and ,  i think ,  the nightingale ,  if she should sing by day ,  when every goose is cackling ,  would be thought no better a musician than the wren .
my voice is ragged .
he is simply the most active gentleman of france .
for the table ,  sir ,  it shall be served in; for the meat ,  sir ,  it shall be covered; for your coming into dinner ,  sir ,  why ,  let it be as humours and conceits shall govern .
look ,  sir ,  here comes the lady toward my cell .
i leave him to your gracious acceptance ,  whose trial shall better publish his commendation .  ”  you hear the learned bellario ,  what he writes .
enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber; thou hast no figures nor no fantasies, which busy care draws in the brains of men; therefore thou sleep'st so sound.
do as thou wilt ,  for i have done with thee .
when it is paid according to the tenor .
lady beatrice ,  have you wept all this while ?
nay ,  then ,  thou mock’st me .
mark antony in egypt sits at dinner ,  and will make no wars without doors .
i dare draw as soon as another man if i see occasion in a good quarrel and the law on my side .
no, not a whit.
ay ,  by my life ,  and never did desire to see thee more .
make no delay .
speak ,  is it out o' the way ?
my father capulet will have it so, and i am nothing slow to slack his haste.
my dear othello!
monster ,  lay to your fingers .
i will ,  my lord .
let it alone ,  thou fool .
what, did caesar swound?
if i can recover him and keep him tame ,  i will not take too much for him .
wife !
do not talk of him but as a property .
nay, how will you do for a husband?
come ,  you are too severe a moraler .
sir ,  i will answer any thing .
what ,  are ancient pistol and you friends yet ?
i never gave him token.
i do not desire he should answer for me ,  and yet i determine to fight lustily for him .
and to that end ,  sir ,  i will welcome you .
it cannot be call'd our mother, but our grave.
heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell .
then i defy you, stars!
you said the enemy would not come down ,  but keep the hills and upper regions .
how art thou out of breath when thou hast breath to say to me that thou art out of breath ?
for lead?
good night ,  good doctor .
soft, who comes here?
or did i dream it so ?
and supportable to make the dear loss have i means much weaker than you may call to comfort you ,  for i have lost my daughter .
and but i be deceived ,  signior baptista may remember me ,  near twenty years ago ,  in genoa ,  where we were lodgers at the pegasus .
if thou dost marry ,  i'll give thee this plague for thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice ,  as pure as snow ,  thou shalt not escape calumny .
this love feel i ,  that feel no love in this .
to adrian] [to sebastian] why, in good time.
swear priests and cowards and men cautelous ,  old feeble carrions and such suffering souls that welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain the even virtue of our enterprise ,  nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits ,  to think that or our cause or our performance did need an oath; when every drop of blood that every roman bears ,  and nobly bears ,  is guilty of a several bastardy if he do break the smallest particle of any promise that hath pass'd from him .
no ?
gone ?
i will be correspondent to command and do my spiriting gently .
there’s knocking at the gate .
and the grace of heaven ,  before ,  behind thee ,  and on every hand ,  enwheel thee round !
will you have me ,  lady ?
the moon shines bright:—in such a night as this ,  when the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees ,  and they did make no noise , —in such a night ,  troilus ,  methinks ,  mounted the trojan walls ,  and sigh'd his soul toward the grecian tents ,  where cressid lay that night .
the dew is raw and cold .
i ne'er saw this before .
was that my father that went hence so fast ?
how many goodly creatures are there here!
who ?
no .
i am glad thy father’s dead ,  thy match was mortal to him ,  and pure grief shore his old thread in twain .
spirits ,  which by mine art i have from their confines call'd to enact my present fancies .
ere we were two days old at sea ,  a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us chase .
would you desire lime and hair to speak better ?
shall i strike now ?
thou know'st that banquo and his fleance lives.
the queen carouses to thy fortune ,  hamlet .
but for your private satisfaction ,  because i love you ,  i will let you know .
who maintains 'em ?
in god’s name ,  speak .
and wake diana with a hymn; with sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear, and draw her home with music.
bring forth men - children only ,  for thy undaunted mettle should compose nothing but males .
either death or you i'll find immediately .
i can tell you it will serve you to mend your shoes .
as i have life and honor ,  there shall he sit till noon .
not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his discretion, and the fox carries the goose.
my lord bassanio gave his ring away unto the judge that begg'd it ,  and ,  indeed ,  deserv'd it too; and then the boy ,  his clerk ,  that took some pains in writing ,  he begg'd mine: and neither man ,  nor master ,  would take aught but the two rings .
is ’t not strange ?
to take the widow exasperates ,  makes mad her sister goneril ,  and hardly shall i carry out my side ,  her husband being alive .
i will not be sworn but love may transform me to an oyster ,  but i’ll take my oath on it ,  till he have made an oyster of me ,  he shall never make me such a fool .
i will not say so ,  for fear i should be faced out of my way .
if you did, i care not.
what noise is this?
then none have i offended.
why ,  to put ’s head in—not to give it away to his daughters and leave his horns without a case .
seeing the apparel] o king stephano!
my lord of cambridge ,  and my kind lord of masham ,  and you ,  my gentle knight ,  give me your thoughts .
so well thy words become thee as thy wounds; they smack of honor both.
have you not set lysander ,  as in scorn ,  to follow me and praise my eyes and face ?
he heareth not, he stirreth not, be moveth not; the ape is dead, and i must conjure him.
judgment ?
let me stay the growth of his beard ,  if thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin .
o hamlet, what a falling off was there!
juliet ,  the county stays .
but this eternal blazon must not be to ears of flesh and blood .
i say ,  to buy his favour ,  i extend this friendship; if he will take it ,  so; if not ,  adieu; and ,  for my love ,  i pray you wrong me not .
but howsoe'er you have been jostled from your senses, know for certain that i am prospero, and that very duke which was thrust forth of milan, who most strangely upon this shore, where you were wrecked, was landed to be the lord on't.
we are the queen’s abjects and must obey . — brother ,  farewell .
it makes us ,  or it mars us .
i will go on the slightest errand now to the antipodes that you can devise to send me on .
whither wander you ?
fetch me an iron crow .
but, howsoever thou pursuest this act, taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive against thy mother aught.
no ,  in despite of sense and secrecy ,  unpeg the basket on the house's top ,  let the birds fly ,  and like the famous ape ,  to try conclusions ,  in the basket creep and break your own neck down .
you'll be the man !
here comes the good macduff.
my mistress here lies murdered in her bed— oh ,  heavens forfend !
my wife killed too ?
we’ll no more meet ,  no more see one another .
how ?
my name is edgar ,  and thy father’s son .
your lieutenant, if you list, he's no standard.
what, all my pretty chickens and their dam at one fell swoop?
this is the fruit of whoring.
you have not a man in all athens able to discharge pyramus but he .
look ,  he wears cruel garters .
what promise ,  chuck ?
leave me, friends.
ay ,  too gentle .
o, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
nay ,  let's follow him .
peace, ho!
let some of my people have a special care of him .
do you withdraw yourself a little while ,
o ,  they are our friends !
who doth he gallop withal ?
good portia, go to bed.
we are blessèd in the change .
there be some such ,  no question .
stay the friar too.
marry ,  we were sent for to the justices .
alas that love ,  so gentle in his view ,  should be so tyrannous and rough in proof !
but was not this nigh shore?
humbly i thank your grace .
and some have greatness thrust upon them .  ”  heaven restore thee !
then leave him out .
tropically.
think not i love him ,  though i ask for him .
i can tell your majesty ,  the duke is a prave man .
i have a salt and sorry rheum offends me .
as whence the sun ’gins his reflection shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break ,  so from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come discomfort swells .
i know not what ’twas but distraction .
hence ,  get thee gone ,  and follow me no more .
casca ,  be sudden ,  for we fear prevention —brutus ,  what shall be done ?
o dear son edgar ,  the food of thy abusèd father’s wrath ,  might i but live to see thee in my touch ,  i’d say i had eyes again !
i will be hanged else !
i met her deity cutting the clouds towards paphos ,  and her son dove - drawn with her .
to be honest ,  as this world goes ,  is to be one man picked out of ten thousand .
post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced .
where should she be ?
ancient damnation!
you shall see anon how the murderer gets the love of gonzago’s wife .
your worship was wont to tell me ,  i could do nothing without bidding .
not for all this land would i be guilty of so deep a sin .
this ,  this .
i'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
i’ll sell all my land .
i doubt not but his friends will turn to us .
your fortune stood upon the caskets there, and so did mine too, as the matter falls: for wooing here, until i sweat again, and swearing until my very roof was dry with oaths of love, at last,—if promise last,— i got a promise of this fair one here, to have her love, provided that your fortune achiev'd her mistress.
what would she have ?
tis midnight .
will you pleasure me ?
not that i love you not .
where is that viper ?
now in faith ,  gratiano ,  you give your wife too unkind a cause of grief .
now i will believe that there are unicorns ,  that in arabia there is one tree ,  the phoenix’ throne ,  one phoenix at this hour reigning there .
madam ,  i go with all convenient speed .
nor i. i would not there reside to put my father in impatient thoughts by being in his eye.
no ,  not for all the world .
all the infections that the sun sucks up from bogs ,  fens ,  flats ,  on prosper fall ,  and make him by inch - meal disease !
and i.
to a rope’s end ,  sir ,  and to that end am i returned .
so did i yours .
go thither ,  and with unattainted eye compare her face with some that i shall show ,  and i will make thee think thy swan a crow .
unknit that threat'ning unkind brow and dart not scornful glances from those eyes to wound thy lord ,  thy king ,  thy governor .
well then ,  sustain me .
i pray you ,  commend me to mistress squash ,  your mother ,  and to master peascod ,  your father .
this is the truth ,  or let benvolio die .
twere damnation to think so base a thought: it were too gross to rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave .
evermore show'ring ?
tis a very excellent piece of work ,  madam lady .
i did hear him groan .
well ,  if you were but an inch of fortune better than i ,  where would you choose it ?
fit to govern ?
no.
if you meet the prince in the night ,  you may stay him .
propose the oath, my lord.
thus i mend it: time himself is bald and therefore ,  to the world’s end ,  will have bald followers .
o ,  that you bore the mind that i do !
see ”  ’t shalt thou never . —fellows ,  hold the chair . — upon these eyes of thine i’ll set my foot .
at seventeen years ,  many their fortunes seek ,  but at fourscore ,  it is too late a week .
who calls so loud?
shall i do such a deed ?
if a jew wrong a christian ,  what is his humility ?
the man is, notwithstanding, sufficient;—three thousand ducats; —i think i may take his bond.
now civil wounds are stopped ,  peace lives again .
i have done the deed.
look when i vow ,  i weep; and vows so born ,  in their nativity all truth appears .
but silence; here comes thisbe .
but, well.
what countryman ?
i am not merry, but i do beguile the thing i am by seeming otherwise.
what concern they ?
that is done, sir; they have all stomachs.
tell him that by his license fortinbras craves the conveyance of a promised march over his kingdom.
peradventure ,  to make it the more gracious ,  i shall sing it at her death .
you may go to the devil’s dam !
all that's spoke is marr'd.
are you not a strumpet ?
tend to the master's whistle!
first go with me to church ,  and call me wife ,  and then away to venice to your friend; for never shall you lie by portia's side with an unquiet soul .
in faith, my lord, not i.
the enemy, marching along by them, by them shall make a fuller number up, come on refresh'd, new-added, and encouraged; from which advantage shall we cut him off if at philippi we do face him there, these people at our back.
so to most noble caesar .
ay, my lord, i would know that.
i pray you sir ,  go forth and give us truth who ’tis that is arrived .
here’s to thee ,  menas !
and so he goes to heaven .
but there is never a fair woman has a true face .
aside] their understanding [aside] their understanding begins to swell ,  and the approaching tide will shortly fill the reasonable shore that now lie foul and muddy .
o for a falconer's voice to lure this tassel - gentle back again !
the adventurous knight shall use his foil and target ,  the lover shall not sigh gratis ,  the humorous man shall end his part in peace ,  the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear ,  and the lady shall say her mind freely ,  or the blank verse shall halt for ’t .
who has done this ,  sir andrew ?
shall they see us ?
thou teachest me .
you charge me most unjustly.
on thursday ,  sir ?
the galleys have sent a dozen sequent messengers this very night at one another's heels; and many of the consuls, raised and met, are at the duke's already.
well have you heard ,  but something hard of hearing .
but men may construe things after their fashion ,  clean from the purpose of the things themselves .
help !
see where she comes and brings your froward wives as prisoners to her womanly persuasion . — katherine ,  that cap of yours becomes you not .
forgive me this my virtue; for in the fatness of these pursy times virtue itself of vice must pardon beg yea ,  curb and woo for leave to do him good .
o most pernicious woman !
antony did tell me of you ,  bade me trust you ,  but i do not greatly care to be deceived ,  that have no use for trusting .
the third o’ th’ world is yours ,  which with a snaffle you may pace easy ,  but not such a wife .
come on my right hand ,  for this ear is deaf ,  and tell me truly what thou think'st of him .
an’ a speak anything against me, i'll take him down, an’ a were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks; and if i cannot, i'll find those that shall.
i would you were as i would have you be !
and i .
nay, but to live in the rank sweat of an enseamed bed, stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love over the nasty sty!
o madam ,  madam ,  madam !
that skull had a tongue in it and could sing once .
ay ,  marry ,  go ,  i say ,  and fetch him hither . — now ,  afore god ,  this reverend holy friar !
i wis ,  your grandam had a worser match .
i cry thee mercy ,  then ,  for i did think that thou hadst called me all these bitter names .
speak the word along .
you must away tonight .
canst thou bring me to the party ?
there ,  my blessing with thee .
i hear him near .
and thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot to mark the full - fraught man and best endued with some suspicion .
i will omit no opportunity that may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
why ,  such is love’s transgression .
but yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
thou didst promise to bate me a full year .
it is even so .
her obsequies have been as far enlarged as we have warranty .
how now ,  daughter ?
the deep of night is crept upon our talk ,  and nature must obey necessity ,  which we will niggard with a little rest .
and you ,  good sir .
that's my noble master !
i hear none, madam.
she mocks all her wooers out of suit .
my lord ,  i say !
it is the devil .
i did .
thou wast provokèd by thy bloody mind ,  that never dream’st on aught but butcheries .
come ,  sir andrew ,  there’s no remedy .
if haply you my father do suspect an instrument of this your calling back ,  lay not your blame on me .
go we to him .
if they suffer our departure ,  death’s the word .
who is't that calls ?
i was not angry since i came to france until this instant .
come ,  go ,  good juliet .
what if it be a poison which the friar subtly hath ministr'd to have me dead ,  lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd because he married me before to romeo ?
o me !
if that the earth could teem with woman's tears ,  each drop she falls would prove a crocodile .
if i should take a displeasure against you ,  look you— thou wert but a lost monster .
come, montague; for thou art early up to see thy son and heir more early down.
as wit and fortune will .
sir ,  sooth to say ,  you did not dine at home .
romeo !
but this good comfort bring i to your highness: the breton navy is dispersed by tempest .
yet i have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds .
why do you speak so startingly and rash ?
why ,  it stood by her .
what is this same?
there is means ,  madam .
horrible sight !
have you eyes?
so did you me ,  my liege .
i may not breathe my censure what he might be .
how doth that royal merchant ,  good antonio ?
pardon ,  i beseech you !
give me up the truth .
upon the crown o' th' cliff ,  what thing was that which parted from you ?
here lies the water—good.
by my soul i swear there is no power in the tongue of man to alter me .
a man may see how this world goes with no eyes .
back ,  slave ,  or i will break thy pate across .
the king and prince at prayers!
nathaniel’s coat ,  sir ,  was not fully made ,  and gabriel’s pumps were all unpinked i' th' heel .
my lord ,  i came to see your father’s funeral .
the world’s a huge thing .
methinks he looks as though he were in love .
how happy some o'er other some can be !
my lord, that would dishonour him.
and why should caesar be a tyrant then ?
to caesar will i render my legions and my horse .
putting on a garment] o, ho, monster!
you shall see it will fall pat as i told you; yonder she comes.
you have often begun to tell me what i am ,  but stopped and left me to a bootless inquisition ,  concluding ‘stay ,  not yet . ’ the hour's now come; the very minute bids thee ope thine ear ,  obey ,  and be attentive .
why then ,  the mustard without the beef .
who’s that which rings the bell ? —diablo ,  ho !
o ,  good my lord ,  tax not so bad a voice to slander music anymore than once .
sister ,  welcome .
i remember a mass of things ,  but nothing distinctly .
the enemy ,  marching along by them ,  by them shall make a fuller number up ,  come on refreshed ,  new - added ,  and encouraged ,  from which advantage shall we cut him off if at philippi we do face him there ,  these people at our back .
tomorrow ,  soldier ,  by sea and land i’ll fight .
for the best turn i’ th’ bed .
is't like that lead contains her?
the all - seeing sun ne'er saw her match since first the world begun .
how many times shall caesar bleed in sport ,  that now on pompey's basis lies along no worthier than the dust !
and my help .
if i know this ,  know all the world besides ,  that part of tyranny that i do bear i can shake off at pleasure .
thou wast born of woman.
life and these lips have long been separated .
speak ,  i charge you .
let me dispute with thee of thy estate .
sir ,  i never loved you much ,  but i ha’ praised ye when you have well deserved ten times as much as i have said you did .
edmund ,  farewell .
your servants ever have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, in compt, to make their audit at your highness’ pleasure, still to return your own.
as i told thee before, i am subject to a tyrant, a sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island.
i tell you 'tis not very well .
happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old man is twice a child .
god buy you ,  take mine office .
will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin ?
o hamlet ,  speak no more !
o goneril ,  you are not worth the dust which the rude wind blows in your face .
at lovers’ perjuries ,  they say jove laughs .
but, alas the while!
tigers ,  not daughters ,  what have you performed ?
upon my life ,  lamord .
trinculo ,  run into no further danger .
i will say nothing .
slaying is the word: it is a deed in fashion.
and o you mortal engines ,  whose rude throats the immortal jove’s dead clamors counterfeit ,  farewell !
i’ll halt after .
who lies i' th' second chamber ?
good repose the while !
so can i.
lady ,  were you her bedfellow last night ?
i should have been more strange, i must confess, but that thou overheard'st, ere i was ware, my true love's passion.
so far he topp'd my thought that i, in forgery of shapes and tricks, come short of what he did.
they bleed on both sides .
i evermore did love you ,  hermia ,  did ever keep your counsels ,  never wrong'd you; save that ,  in love unto demetrius ,  i told him of your stealth unto this wood .
but he which bore my letter ,  friar john ,  was stay'd by accident ,  and yesternight return'd my letter back .
i know not ,  sir .
give him the cup .
what’s he that now is going out of door ?
ninus' tomb ,  ”  man .
which is the lady i must seize upon ?
belike this show imports the argument of the play .
delay this marriage for a month ,  a week; or if you do not ,  make the bridal bed in that dim monument where tybalt lies .
what three things does drink especially provoke?
how many ,  as you guess ?
how say you by that?
with an eye of green in't.
be comforted.
ill rest betide the chamber where thou liest !
it waves me still .
didst perceive?
i will not say you shall see a masque ,  but if you do then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a - bleeding on black monday last at six o'clock i' th' morning falling out that year on ash wednesday was four year in th' afternoon .
so i did ,  fearing to strengthen that impatience which seem'd too much enkindled ,  and withal hoping it was but an effect of humor ,  which sometime hath his hour with every man .
this by calpurnia's dream is signified .
maybe he is not well .
i am not cinna the conspirator.
ay ,  you would beg ,  were you in my distress .
to every roman citizen he gives ,  to every several man ,  seventy - five drachmas .
beshrew me, if i would do such a wrong for the whole world.
for ,  by this heaven ,  now at our sorrows pale ,  say what thou canst ,  i’ll go along with thee .
gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee and his commission to employ those soldiers ,  so levied as before ,  against the polack ,  with an entreaty ,  herein further shown ,  that it might please you to give quiet pass through your dominions for this enterprise ,  on such regards of safety and allowance as therein are set down .
says the fiend; away!
certainly ,  sir ,  i can .
here come two noble beasts in, a man and a lion.
i have used thee ,  filth as thou art ,  with human care ,  and lodged thee in mine own cell ,  till thou didst seek to violate the honour of my child .
if not ,  adieu .
they say ,  one taurus .
therefore have done .
never make denial .
you lie out on't ,  sir ,  and therefore 'tis not yours .
here in her hairs ,  the painter plays the spider; and hath woven a golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men ,  faster than gnats in cobwebs: but her eyes , — how could he see to do them ?
close by, my master.
i would thou couldst .
a friend of antony’s .
thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise .
o romeo ,  romeo !
though it be pity to see such a sight ,  it well becomes the ground .
wakes) when my cue comes, call me, and i will answer.
and cassio killed !
we'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings— i ha't !
caesar hath sent—                                        too slow a messenger .
o ,  if thou wert the noblest of thy strain ,  young man ,  thou couldst not die more honorable .
i do not ,  till you practise them on me .
no ,  indeed ,  sir; the lady olivia has no folly .
will you let it fall ?
it is twice blessed: it blesseth him that gives and him that takes .
i cannot tell what you and other men think of this life, but, for my single self, i had as lief not be as live to be in awe of such a thing as i myself.
o, bear him out o' the air.
i had rather be married to a death's head with a bone in his mouth, than to either of these.
i’ll to the mart ,  and there for dromio stay .
i have a pain upon my forehead here .
are you not kent ?
i pray you ,  leave me .
was not that cassio parted from my wife?
good night, sweet prince, and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
do not go forth today.
thou wouldst else have made thy tale large .
nature wants stuff to vie strange forms with fancy ,  yet t’ imagine an antony were nature’s piece ’gainst fancy ,  condemning shadows quite .
the second cock hath crow'd, the curfew bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock.
but since he stands obdurate and that no lawful means can carry me out of his envy’s reach ,  i do oppose my patience to his fury ,  and am armed to suffer with a quietness of spirit the very tyranny and rage of his .
yes ,  every man of them ,  and no man here but honors you ,  and every one doth wish you had but that opinion of yourself which every noble roman bears of you .
away ,  make haste .
i do beseech you, give him leave to go.
i’ll speak a prophecy ere i go .
no ,  not a denier .
ha!
thou art a cobbler, art thou?
why ,  what you will .
vouchsafe to those that have not read the story that i may prompt them; and of such as have ,  i humbly pray them to admit th' excuse of time ,  of numbers ,  and due course of things ,  which cannot in their huge and proper life be here presented .
thus when i shun scylla your father ,  i fall into charybdis your mother .
come ,  begin .
some say the earth was feverous and did shake .
ay ,  do .
saw you him to-day?
for that he dares us to ’t .
you tallow-face!
could not this make thee know, the hate i bare thee made me leave thee so?
faith ,  the cry goes that you shall marry her .
keep your purse .
why ,  why is this ?
show !
good lord !
eight score eight hours ?
may you stead me?
what is ’t ,  my lord ?
what would you have ?
he did ,  my gracious lord ,  begin that place ,  which ,  since ,  succeeding ages have re - edified .
this honest creature doubtless sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds.
i' th' clout ,  i' th' clout .
killing swine.
here i am .
for hamlet ,  and the trifling of his favours ,  hold it a fashion ,  and a toy in blood; a violet in the youth of primy nature ,  forward ,  not permanent ,  sweet ,  not lasting; the perfume and suppliance of a minute; no more .
what ,  to kiss in private ?
o lord ,  they fight !
if thou wert my fool ,  nuncle ,  i’d have thee beaten for being old before thy time .
tis some mischance; the cry is very direful.
what call you the carriages?
it does, my boy.
but i might see young cupid’s fiery shaft quenched in the chaste beams of the watery moon ,  and the imperial votaress passèd on ,  in maiden meditation ,  fancy - free .
twas this flesh begot those pelican daughters .
pinion him like a thief ,  bring him before us .
wo ha ,  ho !
are these things spoken ,  or do i but dream ?
why ,  there then !
o mischief ,  thou art swift to enter in the thoughts of desperate men !
madman and beggar too .
sir ,  here is newly come to court laertes; believe me ,  an absolute gentleman ,  full of most excellent differences ,  of very soft society and great showing .
hark !
tis very grievous to be thought upon .
if i do die before thee ,  prithee shroud me in one of those same sheets .
he’s safe for these three hours .
and, most dear actors, eat no onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath; and i do not doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy.
ay ,  my lord .
we would so, and then go a-bat-fowling.. [to gonzalo] nay, good my lord, be not angry.
descend ,  for you must be my torchbearer .
lorenzo ,  and thy love .
turn thy complexion there ,  patience ,  thou young and roselipp'd cherubin ,  ay ,  there ,  look grim as hell !
to what effect?
i am cut to th' brains .
how dost thou ,  my good fellow ?
prescribe not us our duty .
did i not tell you she was innocent ?
but speak you on .
i’ll put myself in poor and mean attire and with a kind of umber smirch my face .
be buried quick with her ,  and so will i .
is there no offense in ’t ?
it was ,  so please your highness .
tybalt ,  the reason that i have to love thee doth much excuse the appertaining rage to such a greeting .
he is not doubted . —a word ,  lucillius .
these our actors, as i foretold you, were all spirits, and are melted into air, into thin air; and, like the baseless fabric of this vision, the cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, the solemn temples, the great globe itself, yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve, and, like this insubstantial pageant faded, leave not a rack behind.
so, fare you well at once, for brutus' tongue hath almost ended his life's history.
well ,  all is one .
why ,  uncle ,  ’tis a shame .
mad for thy love ?
disorder ,  that hath spoiled us ,  friend us now .
but how hath she receiv'd his love?
upon condition publius shall not live, who is your sister's son, mark antony.
the players cannot keep counsel; they'll tell all .
and yon tall anchoring bark ,
is ’t so ,  indeed .
those that have known the earth so full of faults .
these late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no good to us .
of whence ,  i pray ?
for when rich villains have need of poor ones ,  poor ones may make what price they will .
who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious, loyal and neutral, in a moment?
goats and monkeys !
within a month ,  ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears had left the flushing in her gallèd eyes ,  she married .
hast thou affections ?
and know it now: the senate have concluded to give this day a crown to mighty caesar .
think on thy sins .
it is but change ,  titinius ,  for octavius is overthrown by noble brutus' power ,  as cassius' legions are by antony .
faith ,  i saw it not ,  but i felt it hot in her breath .
here, as i point my sword, the sun arises, which is a great way growing on the south, weighing the youthful season of the year.
it is a nipping and an eager air .
therefore pardon me, and not impute this yielding to light love, which the dark night hath so discovered.
fathered he is ,  and yet he’s fatherless .
in thee there is not half an hour of life .
so, fare you well.
would i were able to load him with his desert !
that, trusted might yet enkindle you unto the crown, besides the thane of cawdor.
then will i lay the serving-creature's dagger on your pate.
they sit conferring by the parlor fire .
i love thee not .
no jutty ,  frieze ,  buttress ,  nor coign of vantage ,  but this bird hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle .
ah ,  good demetrius ,  wilt thou give him me ?
i humbly thank you; well, well, well.
in this slumbery agitation ,  besides her walking and other actual performances ,  what ,  at any time ,  have you heard her say ?
he dies !
that every like is not the same ,  o caesar ,  the heart of brutus yearns to think upon !
she has spoke what she should not ,  i am sure of that .
is not that neighborly ?
one more ,  one more; be thus when thou art dead ,  and i will kill thee ,  and love thee after .
lady ,  by yonder blessed moon i swear ,  that tips with silver all these fruit - tree tops— o ,  swear not by the moon ,  the inconstant moon ,  that monthly changes in her circled orb ,  lest that thy love prove likewise variable .
will she go now to bed ?
now ,  where’s my wife ?
i would have had thee there and here again ere i can tell thee what thou shouldst do there .
even so ?
how is it with her ?
no ,  by this heavenly light !
must i observe you?
what need the bridge much broader than the flood ?
the saddler had it ,  sir; i kept it not .
how do you mean ,  removing of him ?
we do it wrong ,  being so majestical ,  to offer it the show of violence; for it is ,  as the air ,  invulnerable ,  and our vain blows malicious mockery .
o ,  let me kiss this princess of pure white ,  this seal of bliss !
o my lord ,  my lord ,  forgive my fearful sails !
is his head worth a hat or his chin worth a beard ?
with him i sent the queen ,  my reason all the same ,  and they are ready tomorrow or at further space t' appear where you shall hold your session .
his countenance likes me not .
i lay with cassio lately and ,  being troubled with a raging tooth ,  i could not sleep .
ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name when i, thy three-hours’ wife, have mangled it?
this blue - eyed hag was hither brought with child ,  and here was left by th’ sailors .
there lies the man, slain by young romeo, that slew thy kinsman, brave mercutio.
the sweetest honey is loathsome in his own deliciousness and in the taste confounds the appetite .
some heavenly power guide us out of this fearful country!
the wall ,  methinks ,  being sensible ,  should curse again .
but that my lady beatrice should know me ,  and not know me !
this is the fruits of rashness .
oh ,  villainous !
found you no displeasure in him by word or countenance ?
caliban !
i hope my noble lord esteems me honest .
the great rage ,  you see ,  is killed in him .
he is a craven and a villain else ,  an ’t please your majesty ,  in my conscience .
bleed, bleed, poor country!
she said so .
so young ,  my lord ,  and true .
we shall know by this fellow .
so, uncle, there you are.
do not yourself such wrong ,  who are in this relieved but not betrayed .
one heart ,  one bed ,  two bosoms ,  and one troth .
come ,  throw it o'er my face .
i fear it ,  i promise you .
beat me!
a carrion death ,  within whose empty eye there is a written scroll .
why then i think cassio’s an honest man .
mark his condition and th’event; then tell me if this might be a brother.
o earth !
my daughter !
swords out ,  and tilting one at other’s breasts in opposition bloody .
i have it not about me.
what news?
tis e'en so.
if you had known the virtue of the ring, or half her worthiness that gave the ring, or your own honour to contain the ring, you would not then have parted with the ring.
prithee ,  go in thyself .
but what prevention ?
what ,  are you mad ?
wear both of them ,  for both of them are thine .
my lord ,  i cannot .
confess yourself freely to her; importune her help to put you in your place again.
what, ho, brabantio!
i am not yet so low but that my nails can reach unto thine eyes.
take him on the costard with the hilts of thy sword ,  and then throw him into the malmsey butt in the next room .
about ,  my brain !
good night ,  good doctor .
i was with hercules and cadmus once, when in a wood of crete they bay'd the bear with hounds of sparta; never did i hear such gallant chiding, for, besides the groves, the skies, the fountains, every region near seem'd all one mutual cry.
this is a stem of that victorious stock ,  and let us fear the native mightiness and fate of him .
and with the juice of this i’ll streak her eyes and make her full of hateful fantasies .
i had rather have a handful or two of dried peas .
i should not see the sandy hour-glass run, but i should think of shallows and of flats; and see my wealthy andrew dock'd in sand, vailing her high-top lower than her ribs, to kiss her burial.
oh ,  it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound ,  that breathes upon a bank of violets ,  stealing and giving odor .
let me see your eyes .
my worthy lord ,  your noble friends do lack you .
no ,  heavens forfend ,  i would not kill thy soul !
arm you, i pray you, to this speedy voyage; for we will fetters put upon this fear, which now goes too free-footed.
i took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me .
she did deceive her father, marrying you; and when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks, she loved them most.
o, who hath done this deed?
i am glad of your departure .
then put up your pipes in your bag ,  for i’ll away .
therefore ,  jew ,  though justice be thy plea ,  consider this— that in the course of justice ,  none of us should see salvation: we do pray for mercy; and that same prayer ,  doth teach us all to render the deeds of mercy .
young men will do't if they come to't by cock ,  they are to blame .
all school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?
go seek him out ,  speak fair ,  and bring the body into the chapel .
the devil speaks in him .
my noble uncle, do you know the cause?
i will but spend a word here in the house and go with you .
nor shalt not till necessity be served .
tis a fault to heaven, a fault against the dead, a fault to nature, to reason most absurd, whose common theme is death of fathers, and who still hath cried, from the first corse till he that died today, this must be so.
come ,  brands ,  ho ,  fire -  .
is it for him you do envy me so ?
come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
and i am sick when i look not on you .
answer me directly .
speak ,  man .
smatter with your gossips ,  go .
a liberal hand .
what woman ,  then ?
here comes my man .
sir ,  in algiers .
didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand?
i pray you ,  remember the porter .
he shall spurn fate ,  scorn death ,  and bear his hopes ’bove wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear .
i'll fetch them ,  sir .
i have heard too much ,  and your words and performances are no kin together .
remember me.’ i have sworn't.
when at your hands did i deserve this scorn ?
therefore ,  lord constable ,  haste on montjoy and let him say to england that we send to know what willing ransom he will give .
then meet me forthwith at the notary's; give him direction for this merry bond, and i will go and purse the ducats straight; see to my house, left in the fearful guard of an unthrifty knave; and presently i will be with you.
nay ,  take my life and all; pardon not that: you take my house when you do take the prop that doth sustain my house; you take my life ,  when you do take the means whereby i live .
come on; we'll visit caliban my slave, who never yields us kind answer.
tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on ,  and for a sovereign’s sovereign to ride on ,  and for the world ,  familiar to us and unknown ,  to lay apart their particular functions and wonder at him .
the gallants desire it .
no medicine in the world can do thee good .
there’s not a one of them but in his house i keep a servant fee’d .
i think it be .
no doubt ,  my lord .
upon my life, lamord.
there’s my key .
why, worthy thane, you do unbend your noble strength, to think so brainsickly of things.
have you importun'd him by any means?
well ,  i will thither .
no ,  unpin me here .
consider how it stands upon my credit .
where got'st thou that goose look ?
sweetheart!
sir !
with this strange virtue ,  he hath a heavenly gift of prophecy ,  and sundry blessings hang about his throne ,  that speak him full of grace .
cassio shall have my place .
brother anthony—
ay ,  sir; there are a crew of wretched souls that stay his cure .
i mean, my head upon your lap?
look how the floor of heaven is thick inlaid with patens of bright gold .
worthy gentleman!
will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing ?
i am bid forth to supper ,  jessica .
hath there been such a time—i would fain know that— that i have positively said ‘'tis so,’ when it proved otherwise?
she’s dead ,  deceased ,  she’s dead .
my plenteous joys, wanton in fullness, seek to hide themselves in drops of sorrow.
i'faith ,  sweet love ,  i was coming to your house .
i will compound this strife .
the greatest is behind.
it is no boast ,  being asked ,  to say we are .
worthy macbeth ,  we stay upon your leisure .
these fellows have some soul ,
that's not so good now.
but here the lady comes .
i am dumb .
this above all: to thine own self be true, and it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man.
my father’s death—      thy life hath it dishonored .
you need not fear, lady, the having any of these lords: they have acquainted me with their determinations: which is, indeed, to return to their home, and to trouble you with no more suit; unless you may be won by some other sort than your father's imposition, depending on the caskets.
tonight, my lord?
to be acknowledged ,  madam ,  is o'erpaid .
what mean you ,  caesar ?
we'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors.
who lies i’ the second chamber ?
my life ,  sir !
marry ,  i’ll teach you .
and discourse fustian with one’s own shadow ?
i know not ,  menas ,  how lesser enmities may give way to greater .
go to; well said, well said.
well pray you ,  father .
pardon me .
they are incensed.
for shame ,  you generals !
we have sworn ,  my lord ,  already .
they must lie there .
you look pale ,  and gaze ,  and put on fear ,  and cast yourself in wonder to see the strange impatience of the heavens .
what woman then ?
stones have been known to move and trees to speak; augures and understood relations have by maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth the secret'st man of blood .
fillet of a fenny snake, in the cauldron boil and bake; eye of newt and toe of frog, wool of bat and tongue of dog, adder's fork and blind-worm's sting, lizard's leg and howlet's wing, for a charm of powerful trouble, like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus.
thanks ,  i' faith; for silence is only commendable in a neat's tongue dried ,  and a maid not vendible .
he shall taste of my bottle .
there are no faces truer than those that are so washed .
no .
nay ,  an you will not ,  sir ,  i’ll take my heels .
thou still hast been the father of good news .
but all the story of the night told over ,  and all their minds transfigured so together ,  more witnesseth than fancy's images ,  and grows to something of great constancy ,  but howsoever strange and admirable .
o !
have you got leave to go to shrift to - day ?
he shall do this; or else i do recant the pardon that i late pronounced here.
here is the money .
but ,  as i said ,  on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen .
indeed ,  he plied them both with excellent praises .
if you like upon report the soil ,  the profit ,  and this kind of life ,  i will your very faithful feeder be and buy it with your gold right suddenly .
there is more in it . —cousin ganymede .
and what hope is that ,  i pray thee ?
amen .
this is the truth ,  or let benvolio die .
o wicked wall through whom i see no bliss !
you may light on a husband that hath no beard .
you shall be king .
it is the green - eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on .
nor i neither by this heavenly light; i might do't as well i' the dark .
not sick ,  my lord ,  unless it be in mind ,  nor well ,  unless in mind .
art thou afeared?
prepare you, generals.
then put up your pipes in your bag ,  for i'll away .
but let me hear the letter of your friend .
holds it true ,  sir ,  that the duke of cornwall was so slain ?
seyton !
i am a gentleman ,  sir ,  and my name is conrade .
where is thy instrument ?
out ,  alas !
signior antonio commends him to you .
you know that you are brutus that speak this ,  or ,  by the gods ,  this speech were else your last .
to cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
tis truly so .
a friend.
if it will not ,  what remedy ?
he’s a friend of the duke alençon’s .
it was .
mark antony, shall we give sign of battle?
i have told thee often, and i retell thee again and again, i hate the moor.
no wonder, sir, but certainly a maid.
there is no more but so .
what do you mean to dote thus on such luggage ?
art thou learned ?
the sky doth frown and lour upon our army .
and now ,  good friends ,  as you are friends ,  scholars and soldiers ,  give me one poor request .
your majesty came not like yourself .
set it by a while .
i do not think so .
we pray you for your own sake to embrace your own safety and give over this attempt .
pleasure and action make the hours seem short .
an oath ,  an oath ,  i have an oath in heaven .
i pray you ,  is my master yet returned ?
thou dost talk nothing to me .
my lord ,  i did ,  but answer made it none .
farewell to you . —and you . —and you ,  volumnius .
how satisfied ,  my lord ?
so many miseries have crazed my voice that my woe - wearied tongue is still and mute .
why  “ with some little train ,  ”  my lord of buckingham ?
you tremble and look pale .
no, sir.
come ,  one for me .
his very opinion in the letter !
in mine ignorance your skill shall ,  like a star i' the darkest night ,  stick fiery off indeed .
do ,  good william .
great jove ,  othello guard ,  and swell his sail with thine own powerful breath ,  that he may bless this bay with his tall ship ,  make love's quick pants in desdemona's arms ,  give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits ,  and bring all cyprus comfort .
your lady mother is coming to your chamber.
how should they ,  when that wise men have no eyes ?
come, death, and welcome!
will they not say afterwards ,  if they should grow themselves to common players (as it is most like if their means are no better) ,  their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession ?
a gentle scroll .
i commend my duty to your lordship.
how it did grieve macbeth!
either to die the death ,  or to abjure for ever the society of men .
a sleeve ?
do not answer me .
i’ll tear her all to pieces !
no more of drowning, do you hear?
who then shall blame his pestered senses to recoil and start ,  when all that is within him does condemn itself for being there ?
to have a thousand with red burning spits come hissing in upon 'em !
you shall hear more .
o vengeance !
why ,  but you are now well enough .
i blame you not for praising caesar so; but what compact mean you to have with us ?
if ’twere not she ,  i cannot tell who told me .
you knew, none so well, none so well as you, of my daughter's flight.
wisely ,  and slow .
fie!
o god!
if you will live ,  lament .
post - post - haste ,  dispatch .
there is but one hope in it that can do you any good; and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither .
sir ,  go you in; and ,  madam ,  go with him; and go ,  sir paris .
o sisters three ,  come ,  come to me with hands as pale as milk .
wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally sheep - biter come by some notable shame ?
let her not say ’tis i that keep you here .
your dinner ,  and the generous islanders by you invited ,  do attend your presence .
peter quince!
pour in sow's blood that hath eaten her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten from the murderer's gibbet throw into the flame .
suffer love !
a mote will turn the balance ,  which pyramus ,  which thisbe ,  is the better , —he for a man ,  god warrant us: she for a woman ,  god bless us !
sirs ,  take up the corse .
who ,  queasy with his insolence already ,  will their good thoughts call from him .
yes ,  you are .
and too soon marr'd are those so early made.
this is his sword .
what of that?
why ,  thou sayst well .
so the life that died with shame lives in death with glorious fame .
so says my master antony.
fair daylight ?
adieu .
it is a paltry cap ,  a custard - coffin ,  a bauble ,  a silken pie .
yea ,  wherefore should she not ?
do but look up .
leave me ,  friends .
ply desdemona well ,  and you are sure on't .
well, while i live, i'll fear no other thing so sore, as keeping safe nerissa's ring.
how hast thou lost thy breath ?
sola!
from top to toe?
i would eat his heart in the marketplace .
such a one am i to fear ,  or none .
be thy mouth or black or white ,   do - de ,  de - de .
that’s very true ,  my lord .
take thou some new infection to thy eye, and the rank poison of the old will die.
you a man ?
so much for him .
he faints ! —my lord ,  my lord !
this is well .
nay ,  not sound ,  i pray you .
if thou didst ever thy dear father love— o god !
i do love it better than laughing .
for this present ,  i would not ,  so with love i might entreat you ,  be any further moved .
come, knock and enter; and no sooner in but every man betake him to his legs.
it is a common thing— ha ?
hark !
what’s the boy malcolm ?
lo, yonder, and titinius mourning it.
i like him very well .
so that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce ,  set hyssop and weed up thyme ,  supply it with one gender of herbs or distract it with many—either to have it sterile with idleness ,  or manured with industry—why ,  the power and corrigible authority of this lies in our wills .
didst thou not say he lied?
you make me strange even to the disposition that i owe, when now i think you can behold such sights, and keep the natural ruby of your cheeks when mine is blanch'd with fear.
what ,  not a word ?
oh ,  that my prayers could such affection move !
let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him.
lower ,  lower !
no—yes ,  sure .
no ,  not so ,  villain ,  thou beliest thyself .
we see it and will say it .
this is the very ecstasy of love, whose violent property fordoes itself and leads the will to desperate undertakings as oft as any passion under heaven that does afflict our natures.
but wherefore could not i pronounce  “ amen ”  ?
i will not leave him now till cassio be call'd to him.
your castle is surprised; your wife and babes savagely slaughter'd.
wherefore did you so?
methinks sometimes i have no more wit than a christian or an ordinary man has .
thou dost conspire against thy friend ,  iago ,  if thou but think’st him wronged and mak’st his ear a stranger to thy thoughts .
one face ,  one voice ,  one habit ,  and two persons !
pray thee ,  take pain to allay with some cold drops of modesty thy skipping spirit ,  lest through thy wild behavior i be misconst’red in the place i go to ,  and lose my hopes .
stand !
go thy ways to a nunnery.
oh ,  strange !
why ,  she comes to borrow nothing of them .
lord !
tis well you offer it behind her back; the wish would make else an unquiet house.
why ,  how now ,  cousin !
he went hence but now, and certainly in strange unquietness.
my countryman ,  but yet i know him not .
he is well paid that is well satisfied: and i, delivering you, am satisfied, and therein do account myself well paid; my mind was never yet more mercenary.
if by your art ,  my dearest father ,  you have put the wild waters in this roar ,  allay them .
i do believe 'twas he.
on such a full sea are we now afloat ,  and we must take the current when it serves ,  or lose our ventures .
it will not let you eat, nor talk, nor sleep, and, could it work so much upon your shape as it hath much prevail'd on your condition, i should not know you, brutus.
is this true ?
farewell ,  and let your haste commend your duty .
was that done like cassius ?
not a jot more, my lord.
she will beshrew me much that romeo hath had no notice of these accidents; but i will write again to mantua ,  and keep her at my cell till romeo come— poor living corse ,  clos'd in a dead man's tomb !
thy false uncle— dost thou attend me?
so full of shapes is fancy that it alone is high fantastical .
if cassio do remain, he hath a daily beauty in his life that makes me ugly; and besides, the moor may unfold me to him; there stand i in much peril: no, he must die.
he has kill'd me, mother.
i an itching palm ?
signior ,  it is the moor .
haply in private .
your gentleness shall force more than your force move us to gentleness .
i have seen you gleeking and galling at this gentleman twice or thrice .
so you may put a man in your belly .
how prove you that in the great heap of your knowledge ?
sleep thou ,  and i will wind thee in my arms .
poor venomous fool be angry and dispatch .
and i am brutus ,  marcus brutus ,  i !
nay, we will slink away in supper-time, disguise us at my lodging, and return, all in an hour.
o ,  my lord ,  my lord ,  i have been so affrighted !
i do ,   this touches me in reputation .
the sky ,  it seems ,  would pour down stinking pitch ,  but that the sea ,  mounting to th’ welkin's cheek ,  dashes the fire out .
to who ?
will you hear't again?
indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
what satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
i did love you once .
i am hitherto your daughter .
what’s else to say ? —                                                          these quicksands ,  lepidus ,  keep off them ,  for you sink .
if thou hast nature in thee ,  bear it not .
whither should they come ?
wilt thou know the effect of what i wrote ?
away !
tis a good hand ,  a frank one .
here’s our chief guest .
what a full fortune does the thicklips owe ,  if he can carry't thus !
now sits the wind fair ,  and we will aboard .
is my lord angry ?
courteous lord ,  one word .
o my son ,  my son !
whither should they come ?
i cannot think you are my son .
but is there no sequel at the heels of this mother’s admiration ?
what promise ,  chuck ?
beshrew your heart for sending me about to catch my death with jaunting up and down !
all are punish'd.
kill men i' the dark !
very gladly .
there art thou happy too.
all's one.
hold ,  daughter .
where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill with sorrowful water ?
arise ,  i say !
thine evermore ,  most dear lady ,  whilst this machine is to him ,  hamlet .
villain ,  i say ,  knock me at this gate and rap me well ,  or i’ll knock your knave’s pate .
as of a man faithful and honourable.
i'll be thy second.
come ,  stand not amazed at it ,  but go along with me; i will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him .
i say unto thee ,  i bid thy master cutout the gown ,  but i did not bid him cut it to pieces .
o royal caesar !
sooth ,  but you must .
i shall have glory by this losing day more than octavius and mark antony by this vile conquest shall attain unto .
fair katherine ,  and most fair ,  will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms such as will enter at a lady’s ear and plead his love suit to her gentle heart ?
be not too tame neither ,  but let your own discretion be your tutor .
come ,   “ the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge— ”
let him that loves me strike me dead .
do not deny .
you would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in the same abundance as your good fortunes are; and yet, for aught i see, they are as sick that surfeit with too much, as they that starve with nothing.
who was so firm, so constant, that this coil would not infect his reason?
and your experience makes you sad .
whence camest thou ,  worthy thane ?
o royal caesar!
if that thou be'st a devil, i cannot kill thee.
here i am .
ha, ha, ha!
upon mine honor ,  myself ,  my brother ,  and this grievèd count did see her ,  hear her ,  at that hour last night talk with a ruffian at her chamber window who hath indeed ,  most like a liberal villain ,  confessed the vile encounters they have had a thousand times in secret .
art thou afeard to be the same in thine own act and valor as thou art in desire ?
kind gentlemen, let's go see poor cassio dress'd.
could not a worm, an adder, do so much?
carried to colmekill ,  the sacred storehouse of his predecessors and guardian of their bones .
john duke of norfolk ,  walter ,  lord ferrers ,  sir robert brakenbury ,  and sir william brandon .
why ,  your lieutenant ,  cassio .
that will i do.
they load caliban with the apparel] [they load caliban with the apparel] hey, mountain, hey!
what is that noise?
and i have built two chantries where the sad and solemn priests sing still for richard’s soul .
let her live to join our kingdoms and our hearts ,  and never fly off our loves again !
thou shalt get kings ,  though thou be none .
since this fortune falls to you ,  be content and seek no new .
piece out our imperfections with your thoughts .
none that i more love than myself.
hie ,  make haste ,  make haste .
live a thousand years ,  i shall not find myself so apt to die .
within this three mile may you see it coming; i say ,  a moving grove .
madam, the guests are come, supper serv'd up, you call'd, my young lady ask'd for, the nurse curs'd in the pantry, and everything in extremity.
say you ?
look you here ,  here is himself ,  marred ,  as you see ,  with traitors .
peace ,  ho !
if thou read this ,  o caesar ,  thou mayst live .
let’s meet him and receive him .
why ,  see you not ?
you shall do small respect ,  show too bold malice against the grace and person of my master ,  stocking his messenger .
it were an honest action to say so to the moor .
i'll find out your man ,  and he shall signify from time to time every good hap to you that chances here .
why ,  thy godhead laid apart ,  warr’st thou with a woman’s heart ?
i did consent, and often did beguile her of her tears when i did speak of some distressful stroke that my youth suffer'd.
shall rome ,  &amp;c .  speak ,  strike ,  redress !  ”   “ brutus ,  thou sleep'st: awake !  ”  such instigations have been often dropp'd where i have took them up .
his son is thirty .
therefore give me no counsel .
meet me by and by at the citadel .
i’ll find out your man ,  and he shall signify from time to time every good hap to you that chances here .
ay ,  that’s the way .
well ,  peace be with you ,  sir .
o, are you come, iago?
we see yonder the beginning of the day ,  but i think we shall never see the end of it . —who goes there ?
madam, not yet.
begone !
dissolve ,  thick cloud ,  and rain ,  that i may say the gods themselves do weep !
come ,  civil night ,  thou sober - suited matron ,  all in black ,  and learn me how to lose a winning match ,  play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods .
a quarrel, ho, already!
you bring me out .
anon!
come, go we to the king.
god be wi' you .
wisdom?
i warrant, an i should live a thousand years, i never should forget it.
fie ,  fie !
not in a grave to lay one in, another out to have.
till that ,  i’ll view the manners of the town ,  peruse the traders ,  gaze upon the buildings ,  and then return and sleep within mine inn ,  for with long travel i am stiff and weary .
pronounce .
the grief that does not speak whispers the o'er fraught heart, and bids it break.
there came divers of antonio’s creditors in my company to venice that swear he cannot choose but break .
how fares my lord ?
here come the lovers ,  full of joy and mirth .
mass ,  and well said .
what ,  ho !
go ,  keep us company ,  and we shall make full satisfaction . — thirty - three years have i but gone in travail of you ,  my sons ,  and till this present hour my heavy burden ne'er deliverèd . — the duke ,  my husband ,  and my children both ,  and you ,  the calendars of their nativity ,  go to a gossips' feast ,  and go with me .
i could not for my heart deny it him .
but we both obey ,  and here give up ourselves ,  in the full bent ,  to lay our service freely at your feet ,  to be commanded .
besides ,  it should appear that if he had the present money to discharge the jew ,  he would not take it .
what’s the matter ,  lieutenant ?
therefore use none.
nor have we herein barr'd your better wisdoms, which have freely gone with this affair along.
yes ,  i know thee to be signior lucentio .
so will i turn her virtue into pitch and out of her own goodness make the net that shall enmesh them all .
he is not very tall—yet for his years he’s tall .
no ,  i will go seek some ditch wherein to die .
love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books; but love from love ,  towards school with heavy looks .
i am a gentleman of a company .
o ,  lay me by my mistress’ side .
a stoup of wine !
your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
how vexest thou this man !
as young as i am ,  i have observed these three swashers .
o traitors, villains!
why ,  now thou diest as bravely as titinius ,  and mayst be honor'd ,  being cato's son .
i know this is a joyful trouble to you; but yet ’tis one.
how does your patient ,  doctor ?
tarry ,  jew .
i will make fast the doors and gild myself with some more ducats ,  and be with you straight .
this is some fellow ,  who ,  having been praised for bluntness ,  doth affect a saucy roughness and constrains the garb quite from his nature .
we shall ,  my lord .
all the world’s a stage ,  and all the men and women merely players .
so ,  this is to horse .
you have known what you should not .
o, fear me not!
on tuesday last a falcon towering in her pride of place was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
do you love me?
he hates our sacred nation; and he rails, even there where merchants most do congregate, on me, my bargains, and my well-won thrift, which he calls interest.
accursed be that tongue that tells me so, for it hath cow'd my better part of man!
and so it is ,  truly ,  and very notably discharged .
but if he be at hand i shall be satisfied .
where is he ?
my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
a lady ,  sir ,  though it was said she much resembled me ,  was yet of many accounted beautiful .
go thou to juliet, help to deck up her.
o wonderful son that can so ’stonish a mother !
shall i be plain ?
his eyes are red as fire with weeping .
what were these?
i can stand well enough ,  and i speak well enough .
say either ,  and i’ll stay the circumstance .
his spirits hear me and yet i needs must curse .
i am th' unhappy subject of these quarrels .
abhorrèd slave ,  which any print of goodness wilt not take ,  being capable of all ill !
all torment ,  trouble ,  wonder ,  and amazement inhabits here .
alas ,  sir ,  it is worse for me than so ,  for i have bills for money by exchange from florence ,  and must here deliver them .
was he not here ?
how many then should cover that stand bare !
alas ,  gentlemen— help ,  ho ! — lieutenant—sir ,  montano— help ,  masters ! —here’s a goodly watch indeed !
signior baptista ,  my business asketh haste ,  and every day i cannot come to woo .
wilt thou go with me ?
thou 'rt kind .
well ,  peace be with you .
is it even so ?
but goes thy heart with this ?
was this inserted to make interest good?
an they will take it ,  so .
you ,  you ,  ay ,  you !
belike some noble gentleman that means ,  traveling some journey ,  to repose him here .
nobody come ?
no, by no means.
how now shall this be compassed?
now ,  herald ,  are the dead numbered ?
look ,  here comes the duke .
no ,  i do not know you ,  nor i am not sent to you by my lady ,  to bid you come speak with her ,  nor your name is not master cesario ,  nor this is not my nose neither .
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ?
i know ,  sir ,  i am no flatterer .
he that has the two fair daughters—is ’t he you mean ?
o happy horse ,  to bear the weight of antony !
with all my heart ,  and much it joys me too to see you are become so penitent . — tressel and berkeley ,  go along with me .
if our eyes had authority ,  here they might take two thieves kissing .
do you see ,  gentlemen ?
some men there are love not a gaping pig; some ,  that are mad if they behold a cat; and others ,  when the bagpipe sings i' the nose ,  cannot contain their urine: for affection ,  master of passion ,  sways it to the mood of what it likes ,  or loathes .
ay .
should i have answer'd caius cassius so ?
methought i had ,  and often did i strive to yield the ghost ,  but still the envious flood stopped in my soul and would not let it forth to find the empty ,  vast ,  and wand'ring air ,  but smothered it within my panting bulk ,  who almost burst to belch it in the sea .
i'th’ air or th’ earth ?
let me but meet you ladies one hour hence ,  and i’ll salute your grace of york as mother and reverend looker - on ,  of two fair queens .
o regan ,  she hath tied sharp - toothed unkindness ,  like a vulture ,  here .
i know not.
rapier and dagger .
god be with you!
we doubt it nothing.
romeo ,  romeo ,  romeo !
what’s this for ?
do you know them ?
the little strength that i have ,  i would it were with you .
she will not come .
my gorge rises at it .
why ,  i can buy me twenty at any market .
when the hurlyburly's done; when the battle's lost and won .
the jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones, and all, ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood.
call to me all my sad captains .
why doth the jew pause ?
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age .
vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here, and thou and romeo press one heavy bier!
thy business ?
would i might but ever see that man !
i will not trouble thee ,  my child .
i am a king ,  my masters ,  know you that ?
vanish ,  or i shall give thee thy deserving ,  and blemish caesar’s triumph .
you are dull, casca, and those sparks of life that should be in a roman you do want, or else you use not.
if it please his majesty ,  it is the breathing time of day with me .
say you?
but let him come .
come away.
it is, my lord.
he is well paid that is well satisfied: and i ,  delivering you ,  am satisfied ,  and therein do account myself well paid; my mind was never yet more mercenary .
ay, with a heart as willing as bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand.
how all the other passions fleet to air, as, doubtful thoughts, and rash-embrac'd despair, and shudd'ring fear, and green-eyed jealousy.
for antony ,  i have no ears to his request .
here's my son ,  sir ,  a poor boy , — not a poor boy ,  sir ,  but the rich jew's man; that would ,  sir ,  as my father shall specify , — he hath a great infection ,  sir ,  as one would say ,  to serve , — indeed ,  the short and the long is ,  i serve the jew ,  and have a desire ,  as my father shall specify , — his master and he (saving your worship's reverence) are scarce cater - cousins:— to be brief ,  the very truth is ,  that the jew having done me wrong ,  doth cause me ,  as my father ,  being i hope an old man ,  shall frutify unto you ,  — i have here a dish of doves ,  that i would bestow upon your worship; and my suit is , — in very brief ,  the suit is impertinent to myself ,  as your worship shall know by this honest old man; and ,  though i say it ,  though old man ,  yet ,  poor man ,  my father .
gentle cousin ,  let us go thank him and encourage him .
not stingless too.
we may effect this business yet ere day .
therefore in my presence still smile ,  dear my sweet ,  i prithee .  ”
now old desire doth in his deathbed lie, and young affection gapes to be his heir; that fair for which love groan'd for and would die, with tender juliet match'd, is now not fair.
mine and my father's death come not upon thee, nor thine on me!
i thank you ,  doctor .
o gentle lady ,  do not put me to't; for i am nothing if not critical .
the bounty and the benison of heaven to boot and boot .
awake, awake!
if all the devils of hell be drawn in little ,  and legion himself possessed him ,  yet i’ll speak to him .
how like you the young german, the duke of saxony's nephew?
time, thou the flighty purpose never is o'ertook unless the deed go with it.
no ,  hath not ?
who will go with me ?
good night, and better health attend his majesty!
thrice hath calpurnia in her sleep cried out ,   “ help ,  ho !
but come what sorrow can ,  it cannot countervail the exchange of joy that one short minute gives me in her sight .
give me my armor.
no, truly, sir; not a penny.
what should i answer you ?
what ,  dost thou make us minstrels ?
will the king hear this piece of work?
she was here even now .
i am sorry that i am deceived in him .
sweet now, silence!
i protest ,  in the sincerity of love and honest kindness .
marry, i'll teach you.
and be not easily won to our requests .
he knows not the stop .
all my pretty ones ?
in faith ,  he’s penitent ,  and yet his trespass ,  in our common reason (save that ,  they say ,  the wars must make example out of her best) is not ,  almost ,  a fault t' incur a private check .
but not by him !
gloucester’s eyes ?
ay, sir; that soaks up the king's countenance, his rewards, his authorities.
marry, sir, here's my drift, and i believe it is a fetch of warrant.
i am not guilty of lysander’s blood .
mine and my father's death come not upon thee ,  nor thine on me !
to her, my lord, was i betroth'd ere i saw hermia.
why do you dress me in borrow'd robes?
i ,  sir ?
i never gave him token .
not once ,  nor twice ,  but twenty times you have .
no, iago, i'll see before i doubt; when i doubt, prove; and on the proof, there is no more but this, away at once with love or jealousy!
come, go with me.
twill not be seen in him there .
nay ,  indeed ,  if you had your eyes you might fail of the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his own child .
look ,  with what courteous action it waves you to a more removèd ground .
what is't thou canst demand?
i cannot go to ,  man ,  nor ’tis not very well .
i cannot speak enough of this content; it stops me here; it is too much of joy: and this ,  and this ,  the greatest discords be they kiss .
we will haste us.
wilt thou be gone?
i am one ,  my liege ,  whom the vile blows and buffets of the world have so incensed that i am reckless what i do to spite the world .
no, not for venice.
there ,  gentle hermia ,  may i marry thee .
not possible .
the clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it .
i should have been a sore one then .
i love thee not ,  therefore pursue me not .
even such a husband hast thou of me as she is for a wife .
i do ,  mark antony .
ay ,  there it is .
here's our chief guest.
no more a soldier .
ah, good demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
what a head have i !
and so we will ,  provided that he win her .
ready .
he hath, my lord, of late made many tenders of his affection to me.
i know not .
fare you well .
gentlemen both ,  we will not wake your patience .
o ,  she was foul !
you know that i held epicurus strong and his opinion .
i attend them with all respect and duty .
she's not fourteen .
he hath confessed .
gone she is .
follow my mother .
thou didst smile ,  infused with a fortitude from heaven ,  when i have decked the sea with drops full salt ,  under my burden groaned; which raised in me an undergoing stomach ,  to bear up against what should ensue .
i was hurt under your arm .
what ,  from myself ?
claudius !
who ,  in this kind of merry fooling ,  am nothing to you; so you may continue and laugh at nothing still .
reserve them till a merrier hour than this .
i have as much of this in art as you ,  but yet my nature could not bear it so .
in apprehension how like a god!
live you?
a thing for me ?
shall i have some water ? — come ,  kate ,  and wash ,  and welcome heartily . — you whoreson villain !
no sound ,  no word ?
shall i go fetch your nightgown ?
the readiness is all .
you are three men of sin, whom destiny, that hath to instrument this lower world and what is in't, the never-surfeited sea hath caused to belch up you, and on this island where man doth not inhabit, you ’mongst men being most unfit to live.
of your philosophy you make no use ,  if you give place to accidental evils .
things growing are not ripe until their season; so i, being young, till now ripe not to reason; and touching now the point of human skill, reason becomes the marshal to my will, and leads me to your eyes, where i o'erlook love's stories, written in love's richest book.
seek to know no more .
as i intend to prosper and repent ,  so thrive i in my dangerous affairs of hostile arms !
i do beseech you, sir, have patience.
hear the noble antony .
nay ,  more ,  if any born at ephesus be seen at any syracusian marts and fairs; again ,  if any syracusian born come to the bay of ephesus ,  he dies ,  his goods confiscate to the duke’s dispose ,  unless a thousand marks be levièd to quit the penalty and to ransom him .
hamlet ,  this pearl is thine; here's to thy health .
keep peace ,  upon your lives .
what further woe conspires against mine age ?
now he denies it faintly and laughs it out .
your worth is very dear in my regard.
even so .
i grant you ,  friends ,  if you should fright the ladies out of their wits ,  they would have no more discretion but to hang us .
rather a ditch in egypt be gentle grave unto me .
i am not treacherous .
can i bear that with patience ,  and not my husband’s secrets ?
go ,  you wild bedfellow ,  you cannot soothsay .
banquo and donalbain!
a liberal hand.
god save the king .
and ,  but for ceremony ,  such a wretch ,  winding up days with toil and nights with sleep ,  had the forehand and vantage of a king .
prithee ,  no more .
leave me alone to woo him .
i say you are not .
didst thou dream, lucius, that thou so criedst out?
believe not so.
anon, good nurse!
mother ,  good night .
and yet it is not: it is but so - so .
then say at once what thou dost know in this.
that young swain that you saw here but erewhile ,  that little cares for buying anything .
who could refrain ,  that had a heart to love ,  and in that heart courage to make's love known ?
but ,  for your private satisfaction ,  because i love you ,  i will let you know .
now could i drink hot blood and do such bitter business as the bitter day would quake to look on .
give me a torch .
do it at once ,  or thy precedent services are all but accidents unpurposed .
this wind you talk of ,  blows us from ourselves .
where is thy leather apron and thy rule ?
come in and give some help.
i will do everything that thou wilt have me .
follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out thy pump ,  that ,  when the single sole of it is worn ,  the jest may remain ,  after the wearing ,  solely singular .
prithee ,  say true .
witless else her son .
i cannot speak enough of this content; it stops me here; it is too much of joy: and this, and this, the greatest discords be they kiss.
things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward to what they were before.
disobedient wretch!
by chrish ,  la ,  ’tish ill done .
o, what a beast was i to chide at him!
stephano is my name; and i bring word my mistress will before the break of day be here at belmont; she doth stray about by holy crosses, where she kneels and prays for happy wedlock hours.
i durst not ?
well ,  sir ,  we will not .
as birds do ,  mother .
stay not to question ,  for the watch is coming .
no ,  that were pity; i would entreat you rather to put on your boldest suit of mirth ,  for we have friends that purpose merriment .
what, are you mad?
o ,  i am spoil'd ,  undone by villains !
awake remembrance of these valiant dead and with your puissant arm renew their feats .
if then that friend demand why brutus rose against caesar ,  this is my answer: not that i loved caesar less ,  but that i loved rome more .
treachery!
by this hand, i say 'tis very scurvy, and begin to find myself fopped in it.
ay ,  sir ,  in pisa have i often been ,  pisa renownèd for grave citizens .
how now !
thou fond mad man ,  hear me a little speak .
but, alas, caesar must bleed for it!
there are no tricks in plain and simple faith .
by heaven ,  he echoes me ,  as if there were some monster in his thought too hideous to be shown .
what is your difference ?
you counterfeit, you puppet you!
come, go with me apart; i will withdraw, to furnish me with some swift means of death for the fair devil.
but ,  like a misbehaved and sullen wench ,  thou pout’st upon thy fortune and thy love .
lo, here i lie, never to rise again.
will he tell us what this show meant ?
thrice and once the hedge - pig whined .
our masquing mates by this time for us stay .
what would he do, had he the motive and the cue for passion that i have?
what, is brutus sick, and will he steal out of his wholesome bed to dare the vile contagion of the night and tempt the rheumy and unpurged air to add unto his sickness?
bestir heigh ,  my hearts !
beshrew my heart ,  but i pity the man .
and a good lady, and a wise and virtuous.
nay ,  that’s not your way .
is not tomorrow ,  boy ,  the ides of march ?
then leave her ,  sir ,  for by the power that made me ,  i tell you all her wealth .
god’s my life ,  where’s the sexton ?
god ,  god forgive us all !
all men call thee fickle .
i will be here again ,  even with a thought .
do not think it so unwholesome .
ay, or any show that you'll show him.
now, until the break of day, through this house each fairy stray.
tis truly so.
bate ,  i beseech you ,  widow dido .
thou art a fellow of a good respect; thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it .
good enobarbus ,  make yourself my guest whilst you abide here .
nay ,  but how dearly he adores mark antony !
ready .
flute ,  you must take thisbe on you .
that’s twice .
touching this vision here ,  it is an honest ghost ,  that let me tell you .
sir, grieve not you; you are welcome notwithstanding.
no, nor mine now.
if he love her not, and he not from his reason fall'n thereon let me be no assistant for a state, but keep a farm and carters.
i shall .
why ,  lady !
my bounty is as boundless as the sea, my love as deep; the more i give to thee, the more i have, for both are infinite.
to me you speak not .
oh yes ,  my lord .
what profane wretch art thou?
sola ,  sola !
most like .
o deadly sin !
well ,  get you gone .
what a sigh is there!
here is a wonder ,  if you talk of a wonder .
oh ,  that that earth ,  which kept the world in awe ,  should patch a wall t' expel the winter’s flaw !
her father loved me ,  oft invited me ,  still question'd me the story of my life from year to year ,  the battles ,  sieges ,  fortunes ,  that i have pass'd .
doth not she think me an old murderer ,  now i have stain'd the childhood of our joy with blood remov'd but little from her own ?
foul whisperings are abroad .
art thou there ,  diomed ?
when devils will the blackest sins put on they do suggest at first with heavenly shows as i do now .
upon my knees ,  what doth your speech import ?
but break ,  my heart ,  for i must hold my tongue !
to adrian] how lush and lusty the grass looks!
who is't that cried ?
o, there has been much throwing about of brains.
thou desperate pilot, now at once run on the dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark!
marry ,  before he fell down ,  when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown ,  he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut .
take up her bed and bear her women from the monument .
alas for both ,  both mine ,  edward and clarence !
this is old ninny's tomb .
caesar and lepidus are in the field .
my dear - lov'd cousin ,  and my dearer lord ?
the lady stirs .
lo ,  where he comes !
not to kill him ,  having a warrant ,  but to be damned for killing him ,  from the which no warrant can defend me .
the nephew to old norway ,  fortinbras .
my life upon her faith!
nurse ,  will you go with me into my closet to help me sort such needful ornaments as you think fit to furnish me tomorrow ?
ay ,  on the front .
my falcon now is sharp and passing empty ,  and ,  till she stoop ,  she must not be full - gorged ,  for then she never looks upon her lure .
god 'ild you ,  sir .
my money is almost spent ,  i have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled ,  and i think the issue will be i shall have so much experience for my pains .
well ,  well ,  well .
some comfort, nurse.
your reasons are too shallow and too quick .
knock knock hark !
the ousel cock, so black of hue, with orange-tawny bill, the throstle with his note so true, the wren with little quill.
and set it down with gold on lasting pillars: in one voyage did claribel her husband find at tunis, and ferdinand, her brother, found a wife where he himself was lost; prospero his dukedom in a poor isle; and all of ourselves, when no man was his own [to ferdinand and miranda] give me your hands.
you are very well met .
fie ,  fie !
ay, nurse; what of that?
of mantua .
there's two or three of us have seen strange sights.
do you know me ,  sir ?
and most poor matters point to rich ends .
come, antony, and young octavius, come, revenge yourselves alone on cassius, for cassius is aweary of the world: hated by one he loves; braved by his brother; check'd like a bondman; all his faults observed, set in a notebook, learn'd and conn'd by rote, to cast into my teeth.
o ,  how ripe in show thy lips ,  those kissing cherries ,  tempting grow !
madam ,  i am here .
it is an accustomed action with her to seem thus washing her hands .
o, vengeance!
to the vales ,  and hold our best advantage .
well ,  you temporize with the hours .
if you thrive well ,  bring them to baynard’s castle ,  where you shall find me well accompanied with reverend fathers and well - learnèd bishops .
go ,  tubal ,  fee me an officer ,  bespeak him a fortnight before: i will have the heart of him ,  if he forfeit; forwere he out of venice ,  i can make what merchandise i will .
i should not urge thy duty past thy might .
if thou and nature can so gently part ,  the stroke of death is as a lover’s pinch ,  which hurts ,  and is desired .
down from the waist they are centaurs ,  though women all above .
within these three days let me hear thee say that cassio’s not alive .
hail .
can you blame her then ,  being a maid yet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty ,  if she deny the appearance of a naked blind boy in her naked seeing self ?
i wish your ladyship all heart's content .
would she had never given you leave to come !
be not her maid, since she is envious.
why will my lord do so ?
he’s married ,  madam .
and there the snake throws her enameled skin ,  weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in .
never in your life ,  i think ,  unless you see canary put me down .
yet i insisted ,  yet you answer'd not ,  but with an angry wafture of your hand gave sign for me to leave you .
exchange forgiveness with me ,  noble hamlet .
would i could answer this comfort with the like !
hie therefore, robin, overcast the night; the starry welkin cover thou anon with drooping fog as black as acheron, and lead these testy rivals so astray as one come not within another's way.
look what a wardrobe here is for thee !
o knight ,  thou lackest a cup of canary .
is it four o'clock ?
besides ,  you grow dishonest .
let not your ears despise my tongue for ever ,  which shall possess them with the heaviest sound that ever yet they heard .
a most wicked sir oliver ,  audrey ,  a most vile martext .
so shall you feel the loss ,  but not the friend which you weep for .
swear .
what say you, hermia?
o thou good kent ,  how shall i live and work to match thy goodness ?
good madam ,  let me see your face .
and so doth mine .
shall no man else be touch'd but only caesar?
they are louder than the weather or our office .
swear?
all is lost !
this same is she ,  and i do give you her .
then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair .
ay ,  a tailor ,  sir .
my name is roderigo .
you were the word of war .
but thou art not quickly moved to strike .
e'en at hand ,  alighted by this .
there .
my leisure serves me ,  pensive daughter ,  now .
she is cunning past man’s thought .
sweet doctor, you shall be my bedfellow; when i am absent, then lie with my wife.
how low am i ?
but tell me why you proceeded not against these feats so crimeful and so capital in nature, as by your safety, wisdom, all things else, you mainly were stirr'd up.
what of that?
she haunts me in every place .
what hour now ?
for doting ,  not for loving ,  pupil mine .
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand .
i am in blood stepp'd in so far that, should i wade no more, returning were as tedious as go o'er.
marry ,  our play is ,  the most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of pyramus and thisbe .
will you come to bed ,  my lord ?
who's there, i’ the name of belzebub?
it were a better death than die with mocks ,  which is as bad as die with tickling .
nor go neither .
thou most lying slave ,  whom stripes may move ,  not kindness !
you cannot feed capons so.
help, ho!
none .
and have not we affections, desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
this was a venture ,  sir ,  that jacob served for— a thing not in his power to bring to pass but swayed and fashioned by the hand of heaven .
in law ,  what plea so tainted and corrupt ,  but ,  being season'd with a gracious voice ,  obscures the show of evil ?
hail ,  brave friend !
trebonius knows his time, for, look you, brutus, he draws mark antony out of the way.
o ,  my antonio !
i have a health for you .
you shall read us the will ,  caesar’s will .
enter, sir, the castle.
if thy greatness will revenge it on him—for i know thou darest ,  but this thing dare not— that’s most certain .
wherefore sink you down ?
the king ,  his brother ,  and yours ,  abide all three distracted ,  and the remainder mourning over them ,  brimful of sorrow and dismay .
o come ,  ventidius .
thou may'st ,  i warrant we shall have old swearing ,  that they did give the rings away to men; but we'll outface them ,  and outswear them too .
it is a highwrought flood; i cannot, 'twixt the heaven and the main, descry a sail.
plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
and in good time ,  here comes sir richard ratcliffe and the duke .
so art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
but this rough magic i here abjure ,  and when i have required some heavenly music ,  which even now i do ,  to work mine end upon their senses that this airy charm is for ,  i’ll break my staff ,  bury it certain fathoms in the earth ,  and deeper than did ever plummet sound i’ll drown my book .
good friend ,  go to him .
your power and your command is taken off and cassio rules in cyprus .
wilt thou be gone ?
tis neither here nor there.
we’ll along ourselves ,  and meet them at philippi .
help ,  ho !
from me he got it .
trust me ,  i am glad on ’t .
but is he often thus ?
therein ,  ye gods ,  you tyrants do defeat .
what company is this ?
my lord, fair helen told me of their stealth, of this their purpose hither to this wood; and i in fury hither followed them, fair helena in fancy following me.
news ,  friends: our wars are done ,  the turks are drown'd .
a cup ,  clos'd in my true love's hand ?
my lord it shall be done .
let them affright thee .
romeo slew tybalt; romeo must not live .
but ,  soft !
at mine own house ,  good lady .
but oh ,  poor gloucester— lost he his other eye ?
look !
this was a venture, sir, that jacob serv'd for; a thing not in his power to bring to pass, but sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
faith ,  i know not what to say .
come apace ,  good audrey .
how have you slept ,  my lord ?
dies] [dies] moonshine and lion are left to bury the dead.
i do beseech you that are of suppler joints ,  follow them swiftly and hinder them from what this ecstasy may now provoke them to .
i peseech you heartily ,  scurvy ,  lousy knave ,  at my desires ,  and my requests ,  and my petitions ,  to eat ,  look you ,  this leek .
sir ,  for your hurts ,  myself will be your surgeon .
even so great men great losses should endure .
do you hear ,  cassio ?
if you have any pity ,  grace ,  or manners ,  you would not make me such an argument .
thou rememberest since once i sat upon a promontory, and heard a mermaid, on a dolphin's back uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath, that the rude sea grew civil at her song, and certain stars shot madly from their spheres to hear the sea-maid's music.
take you me for a sponge ,  my lord ?
will you think so ?
these are counselors that feelingly persuade me what i am .  ”  sweet are the uses of adversity ,  which ,  like the toad ,  ugly and venomous ,  wears yet a precious jewel in his head .
we must not now displease him.
here at the door; i pray you ,  call them in .
news from verona ! —how now ,  balthasar ?
o simple !
you are welcome.
poor bird !
call you this  “ gamut ”  ?
i know no touch of it ,  my lord .
tis good we do so .
all this ”  ?
the hand of death hath raught him .
why ,  i will see thee at philippi ,  then .
fare you well, my lord.
she shows a body rather than a life ,  a statue than a breather .
all's well.
the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail and you are stayed for .
shed thou no blood ,  nor cut thou less nor more but just a pound of flesh .
stay not to answer me ,  but get thee gone .
villainous whore !
welcome ,  good cambio .
antony only ,  that would make his will lord of his reason .
but woo her ,  gentle paris ,  get her heart .
her name is margery ,  indeed: i'll be sworn ,  if thou be launcelot ,  thou art mine own flesh and blood .
they are incensed .
i'll not be made a soft and dull-ey'd fool, to shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield to christian intercessors.
as a friend or an enemy?
must i endure all this ?
i have not deserved this.
come, my lord; and in our flight, tell me how it came this night that i sleeping here was found with these mortals on the ground.
i serve you ,  madam .
i scarce did know you, uncle; there lies your niece, whose breath indeed these hands have newly stopp'd.
the wonder is he hath endured so long .
the fiend is at mine elbow ,  and tempts me; saying to me , —gobbo ,  launcelot gobbo ,  good launcelot ,  or good gobbo ,  or good launcelot gobbo ,  use your legs ,  take the start ,  run away . —my conscience says ,  no; take heed ,  honest launcelot; take heed ,  honest gobbo; or ,  (as aforesaid) honest launcelot gobbo; do not run: scorn running with thy heels: well ,  the most courageous fiend bids me pack; via !
ay ,  and i’ll give them him without a fee .
you are in the right.
merciful heaven!
what a thrice - double ass was i to take this drunkard for a god ,  and worship this dull fool !
he will stay till you come .
if any ,  speak ,  for him have i offended .
nay ,  let’s follow him .
if thou couldst ,  doctor ,  cast the water of my land ,  find her disease and purge it to a sound and pristine health ,  i would applaud thee to the very echo ,  that should applaud again .
now ,  if these men have defeated the law and outrun native punishment ,  though they can outstrip men ,  they have no wings to fly from god .
tomorrow ,  then ,  i judge a happy day .
no ,  ’twas the vane on the house .
wherefore did you so ?
write down  “ master gentleman conrade .  ” —masters ,  do you serve god ?
what else ?
bondage is hoarse ,  and may not speak aloud ,  else would i tear the cave where echo lies ,  and make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine ,  with repetition of  “ my romeo !  ”  it is my soul that calls upon my name .
this shall determine that .
write from us to him .
why dost thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in a coranto ?
i am very proud ,  revengeful ,  ambitious; with more offences at my beck than i have thoughts to put them in ,  imagination to give them shape ,  or time to act them in .
a second time i kill my husband dead when second husband kisses me in bed.
basting .
this pernicious slave ,  forsooth ,  took on him as a conjurer ,  and ,  gazing in mine eyes ,  feeling my pulse ,
by jesu, a very good blade!
sings drunkenly] farewell, master, farewell, farewell!
you sunburnt sicklemen ,  of august weary ,  come hither from the furrow and be merry; make holiday ,  your rye - straw hats put on ,  and these fresh nymphs encounter every one in country footing .
he had none .
faith, i have heard too much, for your words and per- formances are no kin together.
stay !
arm'd ,  my lord .
come now ,  your promise .
but yet do i believe the origin and commencement of his grief sprung from neglected love.
i will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players.
fourscore ducats !
we’ll keep no great ado ,  a friend or two .
when our actions do not ,  our fears do make us traitors .
she will not .
therefore thou sleep’st so sound .
horses are tied by the heads ,  dogs and bears by the neck ,  monkeys by the loins ,  and men by the legs .
i will ,  my lord .
but where the greater malady is fixed the lesser is scarce felt .
me ,  poor man ,  my library was dukedom large enough .
fetch me my rapier, boy.
not too fast !
i thank you; and be blessed for your good comfort .
let him cry ,   “ praise and glory on his head !  ”  for forth he goes and visits all his host ,  bids them good morrow with a modest smile ,  and calls them brothers ,  friends ,  and countrymen .
within this three hours will fair juliet wake .
some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrust upon 'em .
thrift, thrift, horatio.
that defense thou hast ,  betake thee to ’t .
how lost you company ?
nay ,  by 'r lady ,  i am not such a fool to think what i list ,  nor i list not to think what i can ,  nor indeed i cannot think ,  if i would think my heart out of thinking ,  that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love .
o villainy!
herein i teach you how you shall bid god ’ild us for your pains ,  and thank us for your trouble .
fare you well ,  jessica .
know’st thou fluellen ?
perchance she cannot meet him .
what miserable praise hast thou for her that's foul and foolish?
one word more shall make me chide thee ,  if not hate thee .
i am afeard, being in night, all this is but a dream, too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
my father is not dead, for all your saying.
here in this island we arrived, and here have i, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit than other princesess’ can, that have more time for vainer hours and tutors not so careful.
nay ,  i do bear a brain .
it must be your imagination then ,  and not theirs .
my lord ,  i would that thursday were to - morrow .
i am so lated in the world that i have lost my way forever .
where the bee sucks ,  there suck i: in a cowslip's bell i lie; there i couch when owls do cry .
most miserable hour that e'er time saw in lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
i had forgot the reward .
he wore his beaver up .
are you drawn forth among a world of men to slay the innocent ?
for you, mistress, save you your labor.
at this same ancient feast of capulet's sups the fair rosaline whom thou so lov'st; with all the admired beauties of verona .
you say right ,  sir; o' monday morning; 'twas so indeed .
well ,  susan is with god .
sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
an if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
an earnest conjuration from the king, as england was his faithful tributary, as love between them like the palm might flourish, as peace should still her wheaten garland wear and stand a comma 'tween their amities, and many such like as's of great charge, that on the view and knowing of these contents, without debatement further, more or less, he should the bearers put to sudden death, not shriving-time allow'd.
we will have no telling .
avaunt ,  and quit my sight !
ross: his absence, sir, lays blame upon his promise.
be you his eunuch ,  and your mute i’ll be .
o ,  answer me !
what follows ,  then ,  my lord ?
there is some grudge between 'em ,  'tis not meet they be alone .
i would you had never seen him !
mistress ,   wilt thou still talk ?
i will go tell him of fair hermia's flight; then to the wood will he tomorrow night pursue her; and for this intelligence if i have thanks ,  it is a dear expense .
what is the matter?
take thy face hence .
raise up the montagues .
poison ,  i see ,  hath been his timeless end . — o churl ,  drunk all ,  and left no friendly drop to help me after ?
i do beseech ye ,  if you bear me hard ,  now ,  whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke ,  fulfill your pleasure .
let us hear ,  sweet bottom .
now ,  my lord .
oh ,  that you bore the mind that i do ,  what a sleep were this for your advancement !
tis a strange truth .
sconce ”  call you it ?
you shall hear me .
be eloquent in my behalf to her .
do what you will ,  dishonor shall be humor .
the gods confound thee !
the venom clamors of a jealous woman poisons more deadly than a mad dog’s tooth .
o ,  what more favour can i do to thee than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain to sunder his that was thine enemy ?
i have no food for thee .
will you think so ?
it is heresy .
i came from corinth ,  my most gracious lord .
and i’ll go to bed at noon .
i mean not cuckold mad ,  but sure he is stark mad .
you rogue!
do so: to ebb hereditary sloth instructs me .
it shall be seven ere i go to horse .
come ,  death ,  and welcome !
legged like a man ,  and his fins like arms !
they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' the world.
oh ,  relation too nice and yet too true !
i would the lightning had burnt up those logs that you are enjoined to pile !
news ,  lads ,  our wars are done !
what is your will ?
we are yet but young in deed .
very well .
i had rather be a country servant - maid than a great queen with this condition ,  to be so baited ,  scorned ,  and stormèd at .
why let it strike ?
i am not sick if brutus have in hand any exploit worthy the name of honor .
nor i; my spirits are nimble.
dost thou think alexander looked o' this fashion i' the earth ?
upon his royal face there is no note how dread an army hath enrounded him ,  nor doth he dedicate one jot of color unto the weary and all - watchèd night ,  but freshly looks and overbears attaint with cheerful semblance and sweet majesty ,  that every wretch ,  pining and pale before ,  beholding him ,  plucks comfort from his looks .
fare you well .
how all the other passions fleet to air ,  as ,  doubtful thoughts ,  and rash - embrac'd despair ,  and shudd'ring fear ,  and green - eyed jealousy .
i do beseech you that are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly, and hinder them from this ecstasy may now provoke them to.
accurs'd, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
and mustardseed !
then ,  venom ,  to thy work .
to relate the manner were, on the quarry of these murder'd deer, to add the death of you.
i heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted; or if it was, not above once; for the play, i remember, pleased not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was—as i received it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine—an excellent play, well digested in the scenes, set down with as much mod- esty as cunning.
he has killed me ,  mother .
know’st thou this country ?
fairies, skip hence; i have forsworn his bed and company.
peace !
the question of his death is enrolled in the capitol ,  his glory not extenuated ,  wherein he was worthy ,  nor his offenses enforced ,  for which he suffered death .
o god ! —o nurse ,  how shall this be prevented ?
about a hoop of gold ,  a paltry ring that she did give me ,  whose posy was for all the world like cutler’s poetry upon a knife ,   “ love me and leave me not .  ”  what talk you of the posy or the value ?
you lie .
no slander .
but beshrew my jealousy !
if i let him go ,  the debt he owes will be required of me .
let them all come down.
a’ was a merry man) took up the child.
an you'll come to supper tonight ,  you may; an you will not ,  come when you are next prepared for .
he himself calls her a nonpareil .
i do remember .
the time is free .
that is done too, sir: only, cover is the word.
go thy ways to a nunnery .
my lord ,  i'll tell my lady you will come .
i do but keep the peace .
what bloody man is that?
censure me in your wisdom ,  and awake your senses that you may the better judge .
what art thou that dost grumble there i' th' straw ?
therefore my son i'th’ ooze is bedded ,  and i'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded ,  and with him there lie mudded .
i see ,  sir ,  you are eaten up with passion .
good morrow ,  prince; good morrow ,  claudio .
how am i then a villain to counsel cassio to this parallel course, directly to his good?
but by immortal providence ,  she’s mine .
and ,  kate ,  when france is mine and i am yours ,  then yours is france and you are mine .
this is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort.
ding ,  dong ,  bell .
the general and his wife are talking of it ,  and she speaks for you stoutly .
how long within this wood intend you stay?
first ,  pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself ,  which the ladies cannot abide .
an now tell me ,  how doth your cousin ?
who does it, then?
did he confess it ?
now, infidel, i have thee on the hip.
farewell the plumed troop and the big wars that make ambition virtue!
if you will watch his going thence (which i will fashion to fall out between twelve and one) you may take him at your pleasure .
were't good ?
some aqua - vitae ,  ho !
or did the letters work upon his blood and new - create his fault ?
but he that tempered thee bade thee stand up ,  gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason ,  unless to dub thee with the name of traitor .
tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit; for i am sick when i do look on thee .
examples gross as earth exhort me .
but on !
thy head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat ,  and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarreling .
set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue!
aside.
mistress ,  what cheer ?
say ‘better . ’ here comes one of my master's kinsmen .
be it so ,  i do desire no more .
and the right valiant banquo walk'd too late, whom, you may say, if't please you, fleance kill'd, for fleance fled.
my tongue and soul in this be hypocrites .
certainly ,  sir ,  i can .
well ,  stand aside . —'fore god ,  they are both in a ale .
and so it is .
this is all .
a traveler .
what would you ,  desdemona ?
hot ,  hot ,  and moist .
but it shall not be so long; this wrestler shall clear all .
away !
work you, then.
farewell, my coz.
yet have i left a daughter .
news, friends: our wars are done, the turks are drown'd.
did you say with cassio?
i will receive it ,  sir ,  with all diligence of spirit .
i wish your enterprise today may thrive.
my good lysander !
ask me not what i know .
i had most need of blessing ,  and  “ amen ”  stuck in my throat .
why, so i can, sir, but i will not now.
it shall to the barber's, with your beard.
take pains; be perfect; adieu.
here is a place reserved ,  sir .
even so great men great losses should endure .
but why stands macbeth thus amazedly ?
nothing is good ,  i see ,  without respect; methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day .
murder!
poor bird !
here, quite confounded with this mutiny.
am i the master here, or you?
yea ,  signior ,  and depart when you bid me .
whose house?
when it is lighted ,  come and call me here .
what sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand that i yet know not ?
thou ’dst never fear the net nor lime ,  the pitfall nor the gin .
from top to toe ?
here ,  take away this dish .
lovers and madmen have such seething brains ,  such shaping fantasies ,  that apprehend more than cool reason ever comprehends .
but ,  as i said ,  on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen; that shall she ,  marry; i remember it well .
no more .
tis nine o'clock .
jailer ,  look to him .
whither should i fly ?
nay ,  do not quarrel with us ,  good old man .
till then ,  my noble friend ,  chew upon this: brutus had rather be a villager than to repute himself a son of rome under these hard conditions as this time is like to lay upon us .
he uses his folly like a stalking - horse ,  and under the presentation of that he shoots his wit .
this is my treasurer .
it is now high suppertime ,  and the night grows to waste .
wot you what ,  my lord ?
how came you thus recovered ?
come ,  thou tortoise !
i pray you ,  good bassanio ,  let me know it .
away with the joint - stools ,  remove the court - cupboard ,  look to the plate .
are these ,  i pray you ,  wind instruments ?
there is no composition in these news that gives them credit.
repair thy wit ,  good youth ,  or it will fall to cureless ruin .
why, there was a crown offered him, and being offered him: he put it by with the back of his hand, thus, and then the people fell a-shouting.
it is the wittiest partition that ever i heard discourse, my lord.
alas ,  what does this gentleman conceive ?
if he please to give me conquered egypt for my son ,  he gives me so much of mine own as i will kneel to him with thanks .
so shall you hear of carnal ,  bloody and unnatural acts; of accidental judgments ,  casual slaughters; of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause; and ,  in this upshot ,  purposes mistook fall'n on the inventors' heads .
how much low peasantry would then be gleaned from the true seed of honor !
say he is sick.
yonder they lie ,  the poor old man their father making such pitiful dole over them that all the beholders take his part with weeping .
go then, for 'tis in vain ‘to seek him here that means not to be found.
fare ye well .
i know not why he comes .
alack ,  i love myself .
hamlet return'd shall know you are come home .
if ’twere no other— 'tis but so ,  i warrant .
treachery !
out of my sight ! — be not offended ,  dear cesario . — rudesby ,  be gone !
wherefore storm you so?
call help.
news ,  friends !
my lord ,  i am for you ,  though it cost me ten nights' watchings .
must i bite ?
o scotland ,  scotland !
all the pictures fairest lined are but black to rosalind .
let specialties be therefore drawn between us ,  that covenants may be kept on either hand .
on ,  to the field !
his words were, farewell mistress; nothing else.
o ,  she doth teach the torches to burn bright !
i pray you all ,  if you have hitherto concealed this sight ,  let it be tenable in your silence still .
prithee, do not turn me about; my stomach is not constant.
are you sure of that ?
have not you love enough to bear with me, when that rash humor which my mother gave me makes me forgetful?
made it for me ,  sir ?
as it ebbs ,  the seedsman upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain ,  and shortly comes to harvest .
casca ,  by your voice .
good my sovereign ,  take up the english short ,  and let them know of what a monarchy you are the head .
my lord ?
the ways are dangerous .
be of good cheer .
you advise me well .
tis bargained ’twixt us twain ,  being alone ,  that she shall still be curst in company .
this bodiless creation ecstasy is very cunning in.
since the youth of the count’s was today with thy lady ,  she is much out of quiet .
men that hazard all do it in hope of fair advantages .
o piteous spectacle!
the day is spent .
o dolt !
i'th’ name of something holy sir, why stand you in this strange stare?
but let me to my fortune and the caskets.
your name, i pray you, friend?
to trinculo] how didst thou ’scape ?
what then?
madam ,  here comes my lord .
he's a traitor.
thanks to your majesty .
wherefore are these things hid ?
no remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear without warning.
my people do already know my mind, and will acknowledge you and jessica, in place of lord bassanio and myself.
marry ,  sir ,  to bid my old master the jew to sup to - night with my new master the christian .
faith ,  like enough .
were ’t my fitness to let these hands obey my blood ,  they are apt enough to dislocate and tear thy flesh and bones .
swum ashore ,  man ,  like a duck .
nay then ,  i will not .
if it prove lawful prize ,  he’s made for ever .
they will scarcely believe this without trial .
heaven doth truly know it .
so call the field to rest ,  and let’s away to part the glories of this happy day .
as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast!
the rest are princes ,  barons ,  lords ,  knights ,  squires ,  and gentlemen of blood and quality .
romeo’s a dishclout to him .
if you did wear a beard upon your chin ,  i’d shake it on this quarrel .
thou hast slept well; awake .
i feel this pinprick .
refrain to - night ,  and that shall lend a kind of easiness to the next abstinence; the next more easy; for use almost can change the stamp of nature ,  and [either master] the devil ,  or throw him out with wondrous potency .
on him i lay what you would lay on me ,  the right and fortune of his happy stars ,  which god defend that i should wring from him .
o, horrible!
so ,  let me hear you speak .
is there no offence in't?
no, when lightwing'd toys of feather'd cupid seel with wanton dullness my speculative and officed instruments, that my disports corrupt and taint my business, let housewives make a skillet of my helm, and all indign and base adversities make head against my estimation!
but who comes here?
the best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst are no worse ,  if imagination amend them .
to do this is within the compass of man’s wit ,  and therefore i will attempt the doing it .
scurvy knave!
be not disturbed with my infirmity.
our force by land hath nobly held .
then must i think you would not have it so .
get thee to bed .
why ,  this would make a man a man of salt ,  to use his eyes for garden water - pots ,  ay ,  and laying autumn’s dust .
we will proceed no further in this business .
i see a cherub that sees them.
then music is even as the flourish ,  when true subjects bow to a new - crowned monarch: such it is ,  as are those dulcet sounds in break of day ,  that creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear ,  and summon him to marriage .
in what particular thought to work i know not; but, in the gross and scope of my opinion, this bodes some strange eruption to our state.
woo’t fast ?
but yesterday the word of caesar might have stood against the world .
indeed ,  my lord ,  it followed hard upon .
we are arrant knaves all; believe none of us.
tis far off ,  and rather like a dream than an assurance that my remembrance warrants .
i do the wrong ,  and first begin to brawl .
all but metellus cimber ,  and he’s gone to seek you at your house .
if you love her then ,  tomorrow wed her .
and be these juggling fiends no more believed, that palter with us in a double sense, that keep the word of promise to our ear, and break it to our hope.
but new struck nine .
away to heaven respective lenity, and fire-ey'd fury be my conduct now!
the county will be here with music straight, for so he said he would.
you speak not as you think .
would none but i might venge my cousin's death !
call up the right master constable .
my sword, i say!
honest?
rest you merry !
how low am i ,  thou painted maypole ?
come .
romeo ,  he cries aloud ,   “ hold ,  friends !
you mock me ,  sir .
curse not thyself ,  fair creature; thou art both .
march gently on to meet him .
but then the mind much sufferance doth o'erskip when grief hath mates and bearing fellowship .
o, falsely, falsely murdered!
whence camest thou, worthy thane?
i know not at whose suit he is arrested well ,  but he’s in a suit of buff which ’rested him; that can i tell .
thou hast amaz'd me .
a right fair mark ,  fair coz ,  is soonest hit .
sweet - heart !
my master ,  not myself ,  lacks recompense .
wilt thou know the effect of what i wrote?
if thou didst it, thou art the nonpareil.
for our bad neighbor makes us early stirrers ,  which is both healthful and good husbandry .
they stand, and would have parley.
come ,  my queen ,  take hands with me ,  and rock the ground whereon these sleepers be .
sir toby ,  madam ,  your kinsman .
what is your name ?
thy voice is thunder ,  but thy looks are humble .
my cause is hearted; thine hath no less reason.
you are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch; therefore bear you the lantern .
who then shall blame his pester'd senses to recoil and start, when all that is within him does condemn itself for being there?
thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe .
what should such a fool do with so good a wife ?
serve god ,  love me ,  and mend .
but let us rear the higher our opinion ,  that our stirring can from the lap of egypt’s widow pluck the ne’er lust - wearied antony .
pay him six thousand and deface the bond !
swear.
romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing that he dares ne'er come back to challenge you; or if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
therefore no more, but to the matter!
but of that tomorrow ,  when therewithal we shall have cause of state craving us jointly .
my deeds upon my head!
you know it is the feast of lupercal .
and to run away from the jew i should be ruled by the fiend ,  who ,  saving your reverence ,  is the devil himself .
i say you are not .
delay it not; i'll have him hence tonight.
as kill a king ?
a goodly one ,  in which there are many confines ,  wards ,  and dungeons ,  denmark being one o' th' worst .
so tedious is this day as is the night before some festival to an impatient child that hath new robes and may not wear them .
o cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
i pray thee ,  bear my former answer back .
let me go .
this dagger hath mista'en ,  for ,  lo ,  his house is empty on the back of montague ,  and it missheathed in my daughter's bosom !
by a name i know not how to tell thee who i am.
to gonzalo] ‘widow dido’ said you ?
too well ,  too well .
unkindness may do much ,  and his unkindness may defeat my life ,  but never taint my love .
o, what a rogue and peasant slave am i!
tell us the manner of it ,  gentle casca .
sir ,  there is especial commission come from venice to depute cassio in othello’s place .
thou!
nor i .
marry ,  will i ,  sir .
she cannot deny it .
you will never run mad ,  niece .
what woman’s man ?
methinks it is like a weasel.
when we shall meet at compt this look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven and fiends will snatch at it .
run ,  master ,  run .
come ,  tailor ,  let us see ’t .
why ,  as a woodcock to mine own springe ,  osric .
idle old man that still would manage those authorities that he hath given away !
he had one yesterday .
but though they jump not on a just account— as in these cases ,  where the aim reports 'tis oft with difference—yet do they all confirm a turkish fleet ,  and bearing up to cyprus .
i will .
what’s the matter ,  think you ?
farewell, my lord.
then there were two cousins laid up ,  when the one should be lamed with reasons and the other mad without any .
thou sayst his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings .
i did.
was my father a traitor ,  mother ?
this is the silliest stuff that ever i heard .
thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report.
thou livest .
the revelers are entering ,  brother .
i entreat you both that, being of so young days brought up with him, and sith so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour, that you vouchsafe your rest here in our court some little time; so by your companies to draw him on to pleasures, and to gather so much as from occasion you may glean, whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus that open'd lies within our remedy.
boy, this shall not excuse the injuries that thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
my dukedom to a beggarly denier ,  i do mistake my person all this while !
we’ll give them present audience .
signor antonio ?
beshrew his soul for me !
that last is true—the sweeter rest was mine .
titinius' face is upward .
every fool can tell that.
do you go back dismay'd ?
sir ,  i say to you we are none .
thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him, hamlet.
when he is best he is a little worse than a man ,  and when he is worst he is little better than a beast .
yes ,  a dozen ,  and as many to th' vantage as would store the world they played for .
soft!
be as ourself in denmark .
yes ,  marry ,  sir .
you wrong me every way .
season your admiration for a while with an attent ear ,  till i may deliver ,  upon the witness of these gentlemen ,  this marvel to you .
a man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
anon we’ll drink a measure the table round .
her father is baptista minola ,  an affable and courteous gentleman .
but all so soon as the all - cheering sun should in the farthest east begin to draw the shady curtains from aurora’s bed ,  away from light steals home my heavy son ,
well ,  well ,  away .
what ceremony else ?
mercutio, thou consortest with romeo.
come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature, if it be well used.
your part in her you could not keep from death, but heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
hie ,  make haste ,  make haste !
what fear is this which startles in our ears?
can heaven be so envious ?
what good could they pretend ?
when ?
thither must i ,  and here i leave you ,  sir .
the eye of man hath not heard ,  the ear of man hath not seen ,  man's hand is not able to taste ,  his tongue to conceive ,  nor his heart to report ,  what my dream was .
my brother never did urge me in his act .
thus die i ,  thus ,  thus ,  thus .
good friends, go in and taste some wine with me, and we like friends will straightway go together.
is the king stirring ,  worthy thane ?
why ,  what you will .
what ,  go you toward the tower ?
is he gone and hath nothing?
we are very sorry for’t .
master constable ,  you go not the way to examine .
now, by two-headed janus, nature hath fram'd strange fellows in her time: some that will evermore peep through their eyes, and laugh, like parrots, at a bag-piper; and other of such vinegar aspect, that they'll not show their teeth in way of smile, though nestor swear the jest be laughable.
say to the king i would attend his leisure for a few words .
thou mak'st me merry; i am full of pleasure.
am i the motive of these tears, my lord?
if after every tempest come such calms ,  may the winds blow till they have waken'd death !
we would be resolved ,  before we hear him ,  of some things of weight that task our thoughts concerning us and france .
be not you ashamed to show ,  he'll not shame to tell you what it means .
fie ,  how my bones ache !
your voice shall be as strong as any man's in the disposing of new dignities.
farewell till then .
let me work; for i can give his humor the true bent ,  and i will bring him to the capitol .
i was provokèd by her sland'rous tongue ,  that laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders .
put out the light ,  and then put out the light .
i know that virtue to be in you ,  brutus ,  as well as i do know your outward favor .
what should a man do but be merry?
give me excess of it that ,  surfeiting ,  the appetite may sicken ,  and so die .
if you’ll patch a quarrel ,  as matter whole you have to make it with ,  it must not be with this .
henceforward do your messages yourself .
fie upon  “ but yet .  ”   “ but yet ”  is as a jailer to bring forth some monstrous malefactor .
why ,  lamb !
ha!
i have been with your father and given him notice that the duke of cornwall and regan his duchess will be here with him this night .
it would have much amazed you .
pray you ,  tread softly ,  that the blind mole may not hear a foot fall .
this green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house; and we will do it in action, as we will do it before the duke.
i go to take my stand to see him pass on to the capitol .
i should not need, if you were gentle brutus.
i will do so .
humbly on my knee i crave your blessing .
here's a change indeed !
die for adultery ?
that  “ fair ”  again unsay .
fie ,  demetrius !
i’ll get me to a place more void ,  and there speak to great caesar as he comes along .
the time is very short .
cannot my lord stanley sleep these tedious nights ?
come ,  come ,  good wine is a good familiar creature ,  if it be well used .
your sum of parts did not together pluck such envy from him as did that one; and that ,  in my regard ,  of the unworthiest siege .
not so, my lord: i am too much i' the sun.
my duty ,  madam ,  and most humble service .
i was hurt under your arm.
that's a fault .
i have a pain upon my forehead ,  here .
the tears have got small victory by that, for it was bad enough before their spite.
there's a daisy.
why doth it not then our eyelids sink ?
a piece of work that will make sick men whole.
he grew unto his seat ,  and to such wondrous doing brought his horse as had he been incorpsed and demi - natured with the brave beast .
therefore prepare thyself .
i know not where he lodges, and for me to devise a lodging, and say he lies here or he lies there, were to lie in mine own throat.
one dead ,  or drunk ?
so shines a good deed in a naughty world .
i know the hand .
the reason why the seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason .
were never orphans had so dear a loss .
o ,  well flown ,  bird .
gone ?
and now about the cauldron sing ,  like elves and fairies in a ring ,  enchanting all that you put in .
noting this penury, to myself i said, ‘an if a man did need a poison now whose sale is present death in mantua, here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.’ o, this same thought did but forerun my need, and this same needy man must sell it me.
gilded tombs do worms enfold .
gentlemen ,  rise .
hail to your lordship !
a spirit i am indeed ,  but am in that dimension grossly clad which from the womb i did participate .
a braggart ,  a rogue ,  a villain that fights by the book of arithmetic !
get you to your lord .
sir ,  i lack advancement .
prithee ,  do not turn me about; my stomach is not constant .
no ,  coz ,  i rather weep .
in such a night, stood dido, with a willow in her hand, upon the wild sea-banks, and waft her love to come again to carthage.
how shall i murder him, iago?
two ,  two—a shirt and a smock .
is banquo gone from court ?
saw’st thou him enter at the abbey here ?
i will not fail you .
lady!
why, there's no remedy.
but if you mouth it, as many of our players do, i had as lief the town-crier spoke my lines.
caesar, i never stood on ceremonies, yet now they fright me.
thou canst compel no more than she entreat; thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers helen ,  i love thee ,  by my life ,  i do; i swear by that which i will lose for thee to prove him false that says i love thee not .
i heard nothing.
she's not fourteen.
we’ll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors .
young men's love then lies not truly in their hearts ,  but in their eyes .
hast thou no letters to me from the friar ?
here's romeo's man.
if i should say ,  i saw such islanders— for ,  certes ,  these are people of the island— who ,  though they are of monstrous shape ,  yet note ,  their manners are more gentle - kind than of our human generation you shall find many—nay ,  almost any .
wilt come?
as rich shall romeo's by his lady's lie— poor sacrifices of our enmity !
your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth ,  and i praise god for you .
why ,  madam ,  if i were your father’s dog ,  you should not use me so .
a friend .
how now ,  my dear othello ?
when the moon shone we did not see the candle .
of it own color too .
or so much as it needs to dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.
adieu, my lord.
they have dispatched with pompey; he is gone .
look ,  and thou shalt see .
no words can that woe sound .
i tell thee what—get thee to church a thursday or never after look me in the face.
fie, there is no such man; it is impossible.
take thy forfeiture .
how comes it ?
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now ?
we shall obey ,  were she ten times our mother .
does’t not go well ?
i will not be afraid of death and bane till birnam forest come to dunsinane .
o simple !
vile earth ,  to earth resign .
i dare assure thee that no enemy shall ever take alive the noble brutus .
some wine ,  ho !
we have store to do ’t ,  and they have earned the waste .
perchance she cannot meet him.
to the mariners] play the i pray now ,  keep below .
i beseech you ,  sir ,  go; my young master doth expect your reproach .
so he does indeed.
thus conscience does make cowards of us all ,  and thus the native hue of resolution is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought ,  and enterprises of great pitch and moment with this regard their currents turn awry and lose the name of action .
but ,  my good lord— wherefore should you do this ?
o ,  no; he goes into mauritania ,  and takes away with him the fair desdemona ,  unless his abode be lingered here by some accident; wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of cassio .
you shall read us the will ,  caesar's will .
how now, my dear othello!
this is more strange than such a murder is .
ay, my lord.
i did not see you; welcome, gentle signior; we lack'd your counsel and your help tonight.
a ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats ,  and for the same he promised me a chain .
what ,  dead ,  my dove ?
we are haunted .
am i like such a fellow ?
the tyrant custom ,  most grave senators ,  hath made the flinty and steel couch of war my thrice driven bed of down .
with what, i' the name of god?
come ,  i’ll go in with you .
o sinful thought !
i was ,  but i do find more pain in banishment than death can yield me here by my abode .
came he not home to-night?
being so frustrate ,  tell him ,  he mocks the pauses that he makes .
how is ’t with you ,  my most fair bianca ?
tis just .
a kind good night to all!
hold ,  there’s half my coffer .
that now sweno, the norways’ king, craves composition; nor would we deign him burial of his men till he disbursed, at saint colme's inch, ten thousand dollars to our general use.
use your authority .
and you are come in very happy time, to bear my greeting to the senators and tell them that i will not come today.
and we’ll wear out in a walled prison packs and sects of great ones that ebb and flow by the moon .
bring him silently .
i often came where i did hear of her, but cannot find her.
his forward voice now is to speak well of his friend .
come ,  bustle ,  bustle .
why, romeo, art thou mad?
not cassio killed !
it is concluded: banquo ,  thy soul's flight ,  if it find heaven ,  must find it out tonight .
then fly !
thou know’st my daughter’s of a pretty age .
i do entreat your grace to pardon me .
moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a good moon-calf.
what says lord stanley ?
but how long shall that title  “ ever ”  last ?
come ,  let me wipe thy face .
is she not proud ?
sits . —i did never think that lady would have loved any man .
trust me ,  i fear it has .
in the same figure like the king that’s dead .
what hast thou there ?
he may show what outward courage he will ,  but i believe ,  as cold a night as ’tis ,  he could wish himself in thames up to the neck; and so i would he were ,  and i by him ,  at all adventures ,  so we were quit here .
is that his answer ?
i’ll buckler thee against a million .
more strange than true.
i am their mother .
do not talk to me, emilia; i cannot weep, nor answer have i none but what should go by water.
where i have come ,  great clerks have purposed to greet me with premeditated welcomes; where i have seen them shiver and look pale ,  make periods in the midst of sentences ,  throttle their practised accent in their fears ,  and ,  in conclusion ,  dumbly have broke off ,  not paying me a welcome .
for 'tis most easy the inclining desdemona to subdue in any honest suit .
but soft !
you know that you are brutus that speaks this ,  or ,  by the gods ,  this speech were else your last .
what raiment will your honor wear today ?
whither ,  my lord ? —cesario ,  husband ,  stay .
marry ,  sir ,  nose - painting ,  sleep ,  and urine .
say ,  what abridgment have you for this evening ?
lead me on .
let her come in.
long live she so !
even so lies she, blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
there needs no ghost ,  my lord ,  come from the grave to tell us this .
impudent strumpet!
i am peppered ,  i warrant ,  for this world .
the devil damn thee black ,  thou cream - faced loon !
my wit’s diseased .
go to ,  you are too shrewd .
pluck up ,  my heart ,  and be sad .
lord, lord!
o dainty duck !
there is one within ,  besides the things that we have heard and seen ,  recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch .
now ,  for i know the breton richmond aims at young elizabeth ,  my brother’s daughter ,  and by that knot looks proudly on the crown ,  to her go i ,  a jolly thriving wooer .
if any ,  speak—for him have i offended .
by my troth, i am glad on't.
sir ,  his chests and treasure he has not with him .
can i bear that with patience and not my husband's secrets ?
bite him to death ,  i prithee .
o, villain that i am!
ay ,  if i be alive ,  and your mind hold ,  and your dinner worth the eating .
look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the madman .
perhaps i will return immediately .
tis not a time for private stomaching .
this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter; and ,  my fortunes against any lay worth naming ,  this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before .
o that i were a glove upon that hand ,  that i might touch that cheek !
to this effect ,  sir ,  after what flourish your nature will .
is not that strange ?
i am not merry ,  but i do beguile the thing i am by seeming otherwise .
by and by .
the lady stirs.
how dost thou under- stand the scripture?
even he that makes her queen .
kill me tomorrow—let me live tonight !
my lord ,  this would not be believed in venice ,  though i should swear i saw't .
such a wagoner as phaeton would whip you to the west and bring in cloudy night immediately .
do you know what you say ?
i thank my noble lord .
yare ,  yare ,  good iras ,  quick .
my mistress, dearest; and i thus humble ever.
how is it ,  general ?
these are but wild and whirling words ,  my lord .
it is so too .
stand!
for ,  sir ,  it is as sure as you are roderigo ,  were i the moor ,  i would not be iago .
how came he mad ?
happy is hermia ,  wheresoe'er she lies ,  for she hath blessed and attractive eyes .
i conjure you, by that which you profess, howe'er you come to know it, answer me: though you untie the winds and let them fight against the churches, though the yeasty waves confound and swallow navigation up, though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down, though castles topple on their warders’ heads, though palaces and pyramids do slope their heads to their foundations, though the treasure of nature's germens tumble all together even till destruction sicken, answer me to what i ask you.
well ,  i am not fair ,  and therefore i pray the gods make me honest .
i tell thee what—get thee to church a thursday or never after look me in the face .
why ,  what an intricate impeach is this !
damn'd as thou art ,  thou hast enchanted her ,  for i'll refer me to all things of sense ,  if she in chains of magic were not bound ,  whether a maid so tender ,  fair ,  and happy ,  so opposite to marriage that she shunn'd the wealthy ,  curled darlings of our nation ,  would ever have ,  to incur a general mock ,  run from her guardage to the sooty bosom of such a thing as thou—to fear ,  not to delight .
marry ,  heaven forbid !
let me go ,  sir ,  or i’ll knock you o'er the mazzard .
for ,  by this light of heaven ,  i know not how i lost him .
i will proclaim my name about the field .
most mighty caesar ,  let me know some cause ,  lest i be laughed at when i tell them so .
now, in faith, gratiano, you give your wife too unkind a cause of grief; an 'twere to me, i should be mad at it.
i take this offer then,—pay the bond thrice and let the christian go.
no ,  no ,  no ,  no !
fair youth ,  i would i could make thee believe i love .
gentle madam ,  no .
i therefore apprehend and do attach thee for an abuser of the world, a practicer of arts inhibited and out of warrant.— lay hold upon him.
nothing ?
i would thou wert so happy by thy stay to hear true shrift . —come ,  madam ,  let’s away .
no ,  caesar ,  we will answer on their charge .
i will kiss thy lips.
lysander, look how i do quake with fear.
why ?
therefore ,  put money in thy purse .
upon the king !
my father’s loss ,  the weakness which i feel ,  the wrack of all my friends ,  nor this man’s threats ,  to whom i am subdued ,  are but light to me ,  might i but through my prison once a day behold this maid .
say ‘better.’ here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
what he hath lost, noble macbeth hath won.
there is no other way .
let it be written in eight and eight .
cannot you tell that ?
what's the matter with thee now ?
he shall have nothing but the penalty .
if she had been blessed ,  she would never have loved the moor .
i cannot believe that in her .
tis better ,  sir ,  to be brief than tedious . —let him see our commission ,  and talk no more .
what art thou that usurp'st this time of night, together with that fair and warlike form in which the majesty of buried denmark did sometimes march?
we are undone ,  lady ,  we are undone !
lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
in form and moving how express and admirable !
as i did sleep under this yew tree here ,  i dreamt my master and another fought ,  and that my master slew him .
well ,  we shall sift him . —welcome ,  my good friends !
sir ,  she is mortal .
they have made worms’ meat of me .
alack the day !
sir ,  amen .
then tell me ,  if i get your daughter’s love ,  what dowry shall i have with her to wife ?
four days will quickly steep themselves in night; four nights will quickly dream away the time; and then the moon, like to a silver bow new-bent in heaven, shall behold the night of our solemnities.
claribel.
marry ,  that am i and my partner .
and ,  good boy ,  good night .
thou hast .
they stand and would have parley .
for better might we have loved without this mean ,  if on both parts this be not cherished .
fool !
when shall we come to th' top of that same hill ?
but come at once; for the close night doth play the run - away ,  and we are stay'd for at bassanio's feast .
to adrian] but the rarity of it is, which is indeed [to adrian] but the rarity of it is, which is indeed almost beyond credit— [to antonio] as many vouched rarities are.
i do believe it ,  and i ask your pardon .
how goes the world ,  sir ,  now ?
stay, gentle helena; hear my excuse; my love, my life, my soul, fair helena!
tis too narrow for your mind .
now cracks a noble heart.
oh ,  he has given example for our flight most grossly by his own !
good sir ,  this ring was given me by my wife .
come ,  go we to the king .
what should i do?
i would thou hadst my bones and i thy news .
but did i never speak of all that time ?
all lost !
but that you do not love me.
madam ,  i swear i use no art at all .
away with the joint - stools ,  remove the court - cupboard ,  look to the plate .
whither are they vanished ?
why ,  that were covetousness .
but near him thy angel becomes afeard ,  as being o’erpowered .
but where is he ?
if i should be ?
they are here about the court ,  and ,  as i think ,  they have already order this night to play before him .
dian's bud o'er cupid's flower hath such force and blessed power.
take thy face hence .
taste your legs ,  sir .
hear me for my cause ,  and be silent ,  that you may hear .
you know the rendezvous .
to be count malvolio !
i look down towards his feet ,  but that’s a fable .
how now ,  you dog ?
tis just ,  and it is very much lamented ,  brutus ,  that you have no such mirrors as will turn your hidden worthiness into your eye that you might see your shadow .
bring me no more reports; let them fly all !
she’s desperate .
this lapwing runs away with the shell on his head .
i am myself indifferent honest ,  but yet i could accuse me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me .
and therefore is winged cupid painted blind .
ah ,  ha !
to the seaside straightway !
fare you well ,  boy .
alack the day!
have you no modesty ,  no maiden shame ,  no touch of bashfulness ?
good volumnius ,  thou know'st that we two went to school together; even for that our love of old ,  i prithee ,  hold thou my sword - hilts ,  whilst i run on it .
all our service in every point twice done, and then done double, were poor and single business to contend against those honors deep and broad wherewith your majesty loads our house.
so - so ”  is good ,  very good ,  very excellent good .
no, no; he's gone.
lysander ,  keep thy hermia .
and yet ,  by the very fangs of malice i swear ,  i am not that i play .
come ,  i will have thee ,  but ,  by this light ,  i take thee for pity .
let four captains bear hamlet like a soldier to the stage ,  for he was likely ,  had he been put on ,  to have proved most royally .
why, then the devil give him good of it!
oh ,  when she had writ it and was reading it over ,  she found  “ benedick ”  and  “ beatrice ”  between the sheet ?
no shame but mine .
like one of two contending in a prize, that thinks he hath done well in people's eyes, hearing applause and universal shout, giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt whether those peals of praise be his or no; so, thrice fair lady, stand i, even so; as doubtful whether what i see be true, until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
tis sport to maul a runner .
o cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
fear not ,  my lord .
take thou some new infection to thy eye ,  and the rank poison of the old will die .
be not lost so poorly in your thoughts.
my lord of oxford ,  you ,  sir william brandon ,  and you ,  sir walter herbert ,  stay with me .
now mark him ,  he begins again to speak .
how much more elder art thou than thy looks !
but, o, what form of prayer can serve my turn?
was ever man so weary ?
sir ,  she is mortal; but by immortal providence she's mine .
the british powers are marching hitherward .
and will you rent our ancient love asunder to join with men in scorning your poor friend ?
and when please you to say so ?
dost thou call me fool ,  boy ?
is not this well ?
give me the ocular proof; or, by the worth of man's eternal soul, thou hadst been better have been born a dog than answer my waked wrath!
the earth ,  that’s nature’s mother ,  is her tomb .
i'll observe his looks; i'll tent him to the quick .
wilt thou be gone ?
come .
no better .
ill luck, ill luck?
my lord ?
tis no less ,  i tell ye; for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon .
for me, with sorrow i embrace my fortune.
it is proved my lady hero hath been falsely accused ,  the prince and claudio mightily abused ,  and don john is the author of all ,  who is fled and gone .
he that thou knowest thine, hamlet.
ay ,  madam .
thou told’st me thou didst hold him in thy hate .
how goes it now ?
you, to remove that siege of grief from her, betroth'd and would have married her perforce to county paris.
i looked her in the face ,  and saw her led between her brother and mark antony .
how now ?
this shall make our purpose necessary and not envious ,  which so appearing to the common eyes ,  we shall be called purgers ,  not murderers .
but hear thee ,  gratiano .
this grave shall have a living monument .
a lantern ,  slaughtered youth ,  for here lies juliet ,  and her beauty makes this vault a feasting presence full of light .
if your majesties is remembered of it ,  the welshmen did good service in a garden where leeks did grow ,  wearing leeks in their monmouth caps ,  which ,  your majesty know ,  to this hour is an honorable badge of the service .
the duke does greet you ,  general ,  and he requires your haste - post - haste appearance ,  even on the instant .
let us go ,  for it is after midnight ,  and ere day we will awake him and be sure of him .
stand fast ,  good fate ,  to his hanging .
retire we to our chamber .
o, that that earth, which kept the world in awe should patch a wall to expel the winter's flaw!
what’s done is done .
it gives me wonder great as my content to see you here before me .
o my dear lord—   nay ,  do not think i flatter .
had he a hand to write this ,  a heart and brain to breed it in ?
e'en so ,  my lord .
take their examination yourself and bring it me .
who does me this ?
i would out - night you ,  did no body come; but ,  hark ,  i hear the footing of a man .
where's the master ?
you are—a senator .
what from the cape can you discern at sea ?
what name, fair lady?
who can blot that name with any just reproach ?
i do believe that these applauses are for some new honors that are heap'd on caesar .
then shall we be news - crammed .
do you see nothing there ?
then i will give you the serving creature .
how ?
i will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight ,  so drunken ,  and so indiscreet an officer .
therein the patient must minister to himself .
they are here about the court, and, as i think, they have already order this night to play before him.
tell me.
god's benison go with you and with those that would make good of bad and friends of foes !
but all the story of the night told over ,  and all their minds transfigured so together ,  more witnesseth than fancy’s images and grows to something of great constancy ,  but ,  howsoever ,  strange and admirable .
mark it .
think’st thou i’d make a life of jealousy ,  to follow still the changes of the moon with fresh suspicions ?
thou hast slept well; awake.
how now, my lord!
uncle, i must come forth.
a second time i kill my husband dead when second husband kisses me in bed .
let me be ta'en .
i’ll fetch some flax and whites of eggs to apply to his bleeding face .
how now ,  grumio ?
gracious my lord, i should report that which i say i saw, but know not how to do it.
o, she was heavenly true!
oh ,  by no means .
come, prepare!
what handkerchief?
bassanio, lord love, if thy will it be.
fly ,  my lord ,  fly .
no more.
good faith ,  a little one ,  not past a pint ,  as i am a soldier .
be not afraid ,  though you do see me weapon'd; here is my journey's end ,  here is my butt and very seamark of my utmost sail .
may i be bold to think these spirits ?
for once upon a raw and gusty day ,  the troubled tiber chafing with her shores ,  caesar said to me ,   “ darest thou ,  cassius ,  now leap in with me into this angry flood and swim to yonder point ?  ”  upon the word ,  accoutred as i was ,  i plungèd in and bade him follow .
i may sit in a corner and cry ,   “ heigh - ho for a husband !  ”  lady beatrice ,  i will get you one .
there’s something else to do .
crowns in my purse i have and goods at home ,  and so am come abroad to see the world .
thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care .
know we this face or no ?
laertes, was your father dear to you?
it is my fashion ,  when i see a crab .
and i would i could find in my heart that i had not a hard heart ,  for truly i love none .
i am much bound to you.
he married but his occasion here .
fare you well .
ay ,  and wisely too ,  for ’twould have anger'd any heart alive to hear the men deny't .
they vanished strangely .
and when i rear my hand ,  do you the like ,  to fall it on gonzalo .
methinks there is much reason in his sayings .
i would have made it short ,  for i was come to the whole depth of my tale ,  and meant ,  indeed ,  to occupy the argument no longer .
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged home .
i do not see them bleed .
it is the part of men to fear and tremble when the most mighty gods by tokens send such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
thy truth then be thy dower .
what is the matter?
farewell .
where is the evidence that doth accuse me ?
look ,  whether he has not turned his colour ,  and has tears in's eyes .
i would have him nine years a - killing .
no more !
approach thou like the rugged russian bear ,  the armed rhinoceros ,  or th' hyrcan tiger; take any shape but that ,  and my firm nerves shall never tremble .
arms, take your last embrace!
why ,  the wrong is but a wrong i' the world; and hav -  ing the world for your labor ,  'tis a wrong in your own world ,  and you might quickly make it right .
scale of dragon ,  tooth of wolf ,  witch's mummy ,  maw and gulf of the ravin'd salt - sea shark ,  root of hemlock digg'd i’ the dark ,  liver of blaspheming jew ,  gall of goat and slips of yew sliver'd in the moon's eclipse ,  nose of turk and tartar's lips ,  finger of birth - strangled babe ditch - deliver'd by a drab ,  make the gruel thick and slab .
o night with hue so black!
shall i believe that unsubstantial death is amorous ,  and that the lean abhorred monster keeps thee here in dark to be his paramour ?
go ,  bind this man ,  for he is frantic too .
romeo he cries aloud ,  ‘hold ,  friends !
every subject’s duty is the king’s ,  but every subject’s soul is his own .
alack ,  for pity !
belong you to the lady olivia ,  friends ?
are there not stones in heaven but what serve for thunder?
ay ,  past all surgery .
ha!
why ask you ?
and only in that safety died her brothers .
both ,  both ,  my girl .
he is already named ,  and gone to scone to be invested .
i am the unhappy subject of these quarrels.
it cannot be .
o cousin, cousin!
the taper burneth in your closet ,  sir .
i pull in resolution and begin to doubt the equivocation of the fiend that lies like truth.
and came i not at last to comfort you ?
why ,  jessica !
bear them from hence .
this fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't?
the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail ,  and you are stay'd for .
shylock, do you hear?
hear you me, jessica: lock up my doors; and when you hear the drum, and the vile squealing of the wry-neck'd fife, clamber not you up to the casements then, nor thrust your head into the public street, to gaze on christian fools with varnish'd faces: but stop my house's ears, i mean my casements; let not the sound of shallow foppery enter my sober house.—by jacob's staff i swear, i have no mind of feasting forth to-night: but i will go.—go you before me, sirrah; say, i will come.
your grandfather of famous memory ,  an’t please your majesty ,  and your great - uncle edward the plack prince of wales ,  as i have read in the chronicles ,  fought a most prave pattle here in france .
what was the second noise for ?
bear me forthwith unto his creditor ,  and ,  knowing how the debt grows ,  i will pay it . — good master doctor ,  see him safe conveyed home to my house .
what you have said i will consider; what you have to say i will with patience hear, and find a time both meet to hear and answer such high things.
i long to die if what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
what players are they?
give us kind keepers ,  heavens !
nor i, my lord.
put color in thy cheek .
but what of that?
there lies your way ,  due west .
they are entirely welcome.
oh ,  heaven have mercy on me !
what noise is that?
my dear ?
this, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me; and more above, hath his solicitings, as they fell out by time, by means, and place, all given to mine ear.
well may it sort that this portentous figure comes armed through our watch, so like the king that was and is the question of these wars.
ay, but their sense is shut.
must she not then be answered ?
hide fox, and all after.
just opposite to what thou justly seem'st— a damned saint ,  an honourable villain !
how does my bounteous sister ?
i must be idle.
aside] praise in departing.
did not you hear a cry ?
i'll rather kill myself.
ay ,  boy ,  ready .
we all expect a gentle answer ,  jew .
those that do die of it do seldom or never recover .
a good soft pillow for that good white head were better than a churlish turf of france .
compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
o!
i’ll stay a month longer .
give him tending; he brings great news .
be not lost so poorly in your thoughts .
a piece of work that will make sick men whole .
with the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and yet prove an ass .
oh !
and stay ,  good nurse ,  behind the abbey wall .
and fixed his eyes upon you ?
what three things does drink especially provoke ?
liberty !
o wall, full often hast thou heard my moans, for parting my fair pyramus and me!
on him ,  on him !
can vengeance be pursu'd further than death?
you are merry ,  my lord .
farewell.
and that distilled by magic sleights shall raise such artificial sprites as by the strength of their illusion shall draw him on to his confusion .
hamlet ,  this deed ,  for thine especial safety— which we do tender as we dearly grieve for that which thou hast done—must send thee hence with fiery quickness .
i have wasted myself out of my means .
thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villainy should be so rich .
i alone will go .
o ye gods ,  render me worthy of this noble wife !
but you are no such man .
good my lord ,  tell it .
were ’t twenty of the greatest tributaries that do acknowledge caesar ,  should i find them so saucy with the hand of she here—what’s her name since she was cleopatra ?
ay ,  my good lord .
i shall not sleep in quiet at the tower .
but what’s your jest ?
if aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
ay, or very falsely pocket up his report.
thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair .
i would i had been there .
when roscius was an actor in rome—  the actors are come hither ,  my lord .
it is a man’s office ,  but not yours .
to alonso] sir, we were talking that our garments seem [to alonso] sir, we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at tunis at the marriage of your daughter, who is not queen.
nerissa teaches me what to believe .
mistress !
even now we housed him in the abbey here ,  and now he’s there ,  past thought of human reason .
if there come truth from them— as upon thee, macbeth, their speeches shine— why, by the verities on thee made good, may they not be my oracles as well and set me up in hope?
i will not sort you with the rest of my servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, i am most dreadfully attended.
i aim'd so near when i suppos'd you lov'd.
so ho !
dost thou hear, my honest friend?
if you go on thus ,  you will kill yourself ,  and ’tis not wisdom thus to second grief against yourself .
we fat all creatures else to fat us ,  and we fat ourselves for maggots .
o cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
perdie ,  your doors were locked ,  and you shut out .
there was ,  for a while ,  no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question .
the main descry stands in the hourly thought .
they call it agincourt .
hold then my sword ,  and turn away thy face ,  while i do run upon it .
what ,  must i hold a candle to my shames ?
o my son ,  what theme ?
while one with moderate haste might tell a hundred .
what?
if they will fight with us ,  bid them come down ,  or void the field .
now ,  until the break of day ,  through this house each fairy stray .
well ,  sir ,  good night .
o, 'tis most sweet when in one line two crafts directly meet.
who hath he left behind him general ?
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven ,  having some business ,  do entreat her eyes to twinkle in their spheres till they return .
your castle is surprised ,  your wife and babes savagely slaughtered .
off ,  pluck off !
revenge.
if thou beest not immortal, look about you.
but tell not me; i know, antonio is sad to think upon his merchandise.
is it a man ?
i'ld have thee live, for, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die.
how know you he loves her ?
it is the part of men to fear and tremble when the most mighty gods by tokens send such dreadful heralds to astonish us .
he brings great news .
glance at my credit with hippolyta ,  didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night from perigouna ,  whom he ravishèd ?
mercutio’s kinsman ,  noble county paris .
tis so, indeed.
here comes the lady .
go take this shape, and hither come in't: go; hence with diligence!
well ,  say ,  sir .
let me know .
she will be pleased .
did you not speak to it?
and wast thou fain ,  poor father ,  to hovel thee with swine and rogues forlorn in short and musty straw ?
what an eye she has !
indeed ,  that is out of the air .
o, is that all?
now ’mongst this flock of drunkards am i to put our cassio in some action that may offend the isle .
and for i know she taketh most delight in music ,  instruments ,  and poetry ,  schoolmasters will i keep within my house ,  fit to instruct her youth .
i think he told me paris should have married juliet .
who calls ?
all blessed secrets ,  all you unpublished virtues of the earth ,  spring with my tears .
how like a prodigal doth she return; with over-weather'd ribs, and ragged sails, lean, rent, and beggar'd by the strumpet wind!
i’ll warrant she’ll tax him home .
nay ,  we will slink away in supper - time ,  disguise us at my lodging ,  and return ,  all in an hour .
he sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with laertes ,  or that you will take longer time .
for these fellows of infinite tongue ,  that can rhyme themselves into ladies' favors ,  they do always reason themselves out again .
you !
what a strange drowsiness possesses them!
how?
i must to the barber's, monsieur; for methinks i am marvellous hairy about the face; and i am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me i must scratch.
i know thy constellation is right apt for this affair .
the dearest ring in venice will i give you ,  and find it out by proclamation .
if thou wilt needs damn thyself ,  do it a more delicate way than drowning .
lay her a - hold ,  a - hold !
i am young ,  but something you may deserve of him through me ,  and wisdom to offer up a weak ,  poor ,  innocent lamb to appease an angry god .
why ,  there's no remedy .
you may as well say ,  that’s a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion .
say that some lady ,  as perhaps there is ,  hath for your love a great a pang of heart as you have for olivia .
none but a holy hermit and her maid .
not stingless too .
i see ,  sir ,  you have found the goldsmith now .
all that served brutus ,  i will entertain them .
statilius show'd the torch-light, but, my lord, he came not back.
away ,  away ,  be gone .
that’s most certain ,  and with you .
silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
do you know me ,  my lord ?
on the sixth hour ,  at which time ,  my lord ,  you said our work should cease .
blind is his love and best befits the dark.
well ,  we’ll see ’t .
we have not made good preparation .
you have been talk'd of since your travel much, and that in hamlet's hearing, for a quality wherein they say you shine.
o heavy hour!
but i am constant as the northern star ,  of whose true - fixed and resting quality there is no fellow in the firmament .
yonder ,  sir ,  he walks .
now, by this hand, i gave it to a youth,— a kind of boy; a little scrubbed boy, no higher than thyself, the judge's clerk; a prating boy, that begg'd it as a fee; i could not for my heart deny it him.
till i know 'tis done, howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
descend, for you must be my torchbearer.
come on !
save you ,  friend cassio !
and so do i .
didst not mark that ?
where should she be ?
pray you ,  make haste .
eyes ,  do you see ?
go prick thy face and over-red thy fear, thou lily-liver'd boy.
where is the master ,  boatswain ?
you are early stirring .
i say ,  it is not lost .
but if thou diest before i come ,  thou art a mocker of my labor .
tis much . —servants ,  leave me and her alone .
you shall have leave .
even or odd ,  of all days in the year ,  come lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen .
i have ’t in my nose too .
in truth, i know it is a sin to be a mocker; but, he!
i do love nothing in the world so well as you .
thou art my love, i think.
is not this something more than fantasy?
i found him under a tree like a dropped acorn .
dear lady— give me leave ,  beseech you .
so god sa' me ,  ’tis shame to stand still .
denmark's a prison .
this were kindness .
is not thy master with him?
diseases desperate grown by desperate appliance are relieved, or not at all.
keep thy word .
tis destiny unshunnable ,  like death .
why ,  what effects of passion shows she ?
parted you in good terms ?
come hither ,  man .
go bid the priests do present sacrifice and bring me their opinions of success .
who hath sent thee now ?
you have astonished him .
yet again your fingers to your lips?
alack, for mercy!
you are ,  and do not know ’t .
weary sev'nnights nine times nine shall he dwindle ,  peak and pine .
where are they ?
go hence with diligence .
did you perceive how he laughed at his vice ?
the best news is that we have safely found our king and company; the next ,  our ship ,  which but three glasses since we gave out split ,  is tight and yare and bravely rigged as when we first put out to sea .
satan ,  avoid !
go to ,  away !
prithee ,  keep up thy quillets .
i hate the moor; and it is thought abroad that 'twixt my sheets he has done my office .
hath it slept since?
for any good that i myself have done unto myself ?
thou say’st the king grows mad .
what is your pleasure ,  madam ?
care keeps his watch in every old man's eye, and where care lodges sleep will never lie; but where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.
fear me not ,  man .
bear with me, good boy, i am much forgetful.
i have a reasonable good ear in music .
not i ,  believe me .
oh ,  beware ,  my lord ,  of jealousy !
call !
i wonder none of you have thought of him .
not a hair perished .
nay, i'll go with thee, cheek by jowl.
make your best use of this .
i’ll not believe ’t .
we do not mean the coursing snatchers only ,  but fear the main intendment of the scot ,  who hath been still a giddy neighbor to us .
are not those in commission yet return'd?
beatrice— in faith ,  i will go .
dwell i but in the suburbs of your good pleasure?
death lies on her like an untimely frost upon the sweetest flower of all the field .
to whom do you speak this?
stay, tybalt, stay!
madam!
make forth ,  the generals would have some words .
why ,  this that i speak of .
mercy on us ! ’—‘we split ,  we split ! ’—‘farewell ,  my wife and children ! ’—‘farewell ,  brother ! ’—‘we split ,  we split ,  we split ! ’ let's all sink wi'th’ king .
and can you by no drift of conference get from him why he puts on this confusion ,  grating so harshly all his days of quiet with turbulent and dangerous lunacy ?
ay ,  a thousand times . —peter !
but one cup .
humbly ,  sir ,  i thank you .
then i must be thy lady; but i know when thou hast stolen away from fairy land ,  and in the shape of corin sat all day ,  playing on pipes of corn ,  and versing love to amorous phillida .
faith ,  that he did—i know not what he did .
my lord, i did; but answer made it none.
what shall i call thee when thou art a man ?
we must not now displease him .
our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us . —farewell ,  dear sister .
known unto these ,  and to myself disguised !
is this the fine of his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine pate full of fine dirt?
at land indeed thou dost o’ercount me of my father’s house ,  but since the cuckoo builds not for himself ,  remain in ’t as thou mayst .
nay ,  but say true ,  does it work upon him ?
he is welcome too .
i'll tell my husband ,  launcelot ,  what you say; here he comes .
what are you ?
why do you show me this ?
would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers—if the rest of my fortunes turn turk with me—with two provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
what many men desire ” —that  “ many ”  may be meant by the fool multitude that choose by show ,  not learning more than the fond eye doth teach; which pries not to th' interior ,  but like the martlet builds in the weather on the outward wall ,  even in the force and road of casualty .
let our best heads know that tomorrow the last of many battles we mean to fight .
ay ,  sir .
romeo's a dishclout to him.
therefore tremble and depart .
double, double, toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble.
i’ll follow it .
o villain ,  villain !
dost thou know me ,  fellow ?
but ere they came , –o ,  let me say no more !
let me report to him your sweet dependency ,  and you shall find a conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness where he for grace is kneeled to .
hail ,  gentle sir .
but yet the pity of it ,  iago !
but ,  to my thinking ,  he was very loath to lay his fingers off it .
the glove which i have given him for a favor may haply purchase him a box o' th' ear .
dost thou in conscience think—tell me, emilia— that there be women do abuse their husbands in such gross kind?
will you grant with me that ferdinand is drowned ?
of laertes ?
monstrous !
or are you aught that man may question?
come one more .
he's gone ,  but his wife's kill'd .
an evil soul producing holy witness is like a villain with a smiling cheek; a goodly apple rotten at the heart; o ,  what a goodly outside falsehood hath !
my noble father, i do perceive here a divided duty.
what proof shall i make of that ?
tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently.
what said he ?
it is brabantio . —general ,  be advised; he comes to bad intent .
tis clean out of the way .
o good sir ,  i do .
and that distill'd by magic sleights shall raise such artificial sprites as by the strength of their illusion shall draw him on to his confusion .
this is the door .
mark antony ,  shall we give sign of battle ?
is't possible?
at once ,  good night .
o, for two special reasons, which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd, but yet to me they are strong.
lo ,  where it comes again .
touch me not so near: i had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth than it should do offense to michael cassio; yet ,  i persuade myself ,  to speak the truth shall nothing wrong him .
come ,  sir ,  your passado !
have all his ventures fail'd?
zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death!
i am for thee straight .
when i came back— for this was brief —i found them close together ,  at blow and thrust ,  even as again they were when you yourself did part them .
you will have gremio to keep you fair .
adieu ,  be vigitant ,  i beseech you .
what ,  removed ?
alas, she has no speech.
come ,  uncle exeter ,  go you and enter harfleur .
leave us.
i’ll catch it ere it come to ground .
i ne'er saw this before.
dismount thy tuck ,  be yare in thy preparation ,  for thy assailant is quick ,  skillful and deadly .
god bless me from a challenge !
and mine ,  with my heart in't ,  and now farewell till half an hour hence .
or stole it ,  rather .
a light ,  a light !
it is offended .
i would fain prove so.
my servant ,  sir !
a very handsome man .
now ,  signior ,  what news ?
gentlemen all ,  i do suspect this trash to be a party in this injury . — patience awhile ,  good cassio . —come ,  come ,  lend me a light .
farewell .
for my brother ,  i think he holds you well ,  and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage—surely suit ill spent and labor ill bestowed .
what make you from home ?
she that makes dainty ,  she ,  i'll swear ,  hath corns .
my next is ‘most fair pyramus . ’ heigh - ho !
what’s to be done ?
i’ll tell thee how beatrice praised thy wit he other day .
octavia is of a holy ,  cold ,  and still conversation .
do i entice you ?
well, say, sir.
yet but three ?
now ,  by my hood ,  a gentle and no jew .
we are men ,  my liege .
out ,  out ,  brief candle !
he wonders to what end you have assembled such troops of citizens to come to him ,  his grace not being warned thereof before .
but when this ring parts from this finger ,  then parts life from hence; o ,  then be bold to say ,  bassanio's dead .
dead ,  desdemon !
then be your eyes the witness of their evil .
here comes the king ,  the queen ,  the courtiers—who is this they follow ,  and with such maimèd rites ?
ay, amen!
i have heard your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify his rigorous course .
by my heel ,  i care not .
well are you welcome to the open air .
if you prove a mutineer ,  the next tree .
is it not monstrous that this player here ,  but in a fiction ,  in a dream of passion ,  could force his soul so to his own conceit that from her working all his visage wann'd ,  tears in his eyes ,  distraction in's aspect ,  a broken voice ,  and his whole function suiting with forms to his conceit ?
this hand of yours requires a sequester from liberty ,  fasting ,  and prayer ,
marry ,  i'll teach you .
and so falls it out with rivers ,  vaughan ,  grey; and so ’twill do with some men else that think themselves as safe as thou and i ,  who ,  as thou know’st ,  are dear to princely richard and to buckingham .
mark his condition and the event .
and were the king on't, what would i do?
blow ,  wind !
freedom!
you go to seek the lord hamlet .
if all else fail ,  myself have power to die .
how looked he ?
this will so fright them both that they will kill one another by the look ,  like cockatrices .
crystal is muddy.
but art thou not drowned ,  stephano ?
nobody; i myself .
i promise you ,  but for your company ,  i would have been abed an hour ago .
the queen his mother lives almost by his looks; and for myself— my virtue or my plague, be it either which— she's so conjunctive to my life and soul that, as the star moves not but in his sphere, i could not but by her.
o curse of marriage, that we can call these delicate creatures ours, and not their appetites!
i do remember an apothecary ,  and hereabouts he dwells ,  which late i noted in tatt'red weeds ,  with overwhelming brows ,  culling of simples .
i will hence to-night.
and so did i.
here, my lord.
i beseech you pardon me ,  my lord ,  if i be mistaken—for my duty cannot be silent when i think your highness wronged .
why ,  even in that was heaven ordinant .
if you do not ,  if i be left alone ,  now ,  by mine honor—which is yet mine own— i’ll have that doctor for my bedfellow .
you say well .
with this i depart—that ,  as i slew my best lover for the good of rome ,  i have the same dagger for myself ,  when it shall please my country to need my death .
why ,  that was he .
oh ,  sweet england !
but, since the affairs of men rest still incertain, let's reason with the worst that may befall.
what a blunt fellow is this grown to be!
in troth ,  ’tis morning .
was not this love indeed ?
i think our country sinks beneath the yoke; it weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each new day a gash is added to her wounds .
then fall, caesar!
thou losest labor .
were i my father ,  coz ,  would i do this ?
may we do so ?
silenced with that ,  in viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day ,  he finds thee in the stout norweyan ranks ,  nothing afeard of what thyself didst make ,  strange images of death .
let me see .
ay ,  forsooth .
and is it physical to walk unbracèd and suck up the humors of the dank morning ?
why dost thou lash that whore ?
their villainy goes against my weak stomach ,  and therefore i must cast it up .
she was the wife of caius marcellus .
do you confess so much?
have patience ,  gentle friends ,  i must not read it; it is not meet you know how caesar loved you .
i see a voice .
we have a trifling foolish banquet towards . — is it e'en so ?
nor time nor place did then adhere, and yet you would make both: they have made themselves, and that their fitness now does unmake you.
o sweet my mother, cast me not away!
let's make us medicines of our great revenge ,  to cure this deadly grief .
it is not honesty in me to speak what i have seen and known.
but what say you to thursday?
see where he looks out of the window .
if such a one be fit to govern, speak.
how does my good lord hamlet ?
so bless thee ,  master .
i am a gentleman of blood and breeding ,  and from some knowledge and assurance offer this office to you .
my lady is within ,  sir .
we’ll hear him what he says .
what a blunt fellow is this grown to be !
aroint thee ,  witch !  ”  the rump - fed ronyon cries .
i might do ’t as well i' th' dark .
o kate ,  nice customs curtsy to great kings .
fly and make your peace with caesar .
their sense thus weak, lost with their fears thus strong, made senseless things begin to do them wrong, for briers and thorns at their apparel snatch; some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all things catch.
i will not .
the cowslips tall her pensioners be .
dost thou hear?
stay ,  i prithee ,  tell me what thou thinkest of me .
e'en so ,  my lord .
what?
say what you will ,  sir ,  but i know what i know .
he is well paid that is well satisfied .
stand ,  ho !
which is sebastian ?
now forth ,  lord constable and princes all ,  and quickly bring us word of england’s fall .
at mine unworthiness that dare not offer what i desire to give ,  and much less take what i shall die to want .
i have brought him a present.
so sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow for debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe; which now in some slight measure it will pay ,  if for his tender here i make some stay .
well ,  sir ,  learn to jest in good time .
when we have matched our rackets to these balls ,  we will in france ,  by god’s grace ,  play a set shall strike his father’s crown into the hazard .
o son, the night before thy wedding day hath death lain with thy wife.
sweet lord ,  if your lordship were at leisure ,  i should impart a thing to you from his majesty .
o villain !
let us hear, sweet bottom.
our hearts you see not; they are pitiful; and pity to the general wrong of rome— as fire drives out fire, so pity pity— hath done this deed on caesar.
nor the soles of her shoe?
i promise you ,  my soul is very jocund in the remembrance of so fair a dream .
the people in the street cry ‘romeo , ’ some ‘juliet , ’ and some ‘paris’; and all run ,  with open outcry ,  toward our monument .
that gallant spirit hath aspir’d the clouds ,  which too untimely here did scorn the earth .
is it so ,  countrymen ?
what it is ,  my caius ,  i shall unfold to thee ,  as we are going to whom it must be done .
where should othello go ? — now ,  how dost thou look now ?
my bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne, and all this day an unaccustom'd spirit lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
conscience and grace ,  to the profoundest pit !
know you the hand?
say, why is this?
no ,  by my life and soul !
marry ,  sir ,  they have committed false report; moreover ,  they have spoken untruths; secondarily ,  they are slanders; sixth and lastly ,  they have belied a lady; thirdly ,  they have verified unjust things; and ,  to conclude ,  they are lying knaves .
my honour'd lord, you know right well you did, and with them words of so sweet breath compos'd as made the things more rich.
ay, and for that thou diest.
macbeth!
romeo !
thus with a kiss i die.
take up those cords.
i’ll no more of you .
what's hecuba to him ,  or he to hecuba ,  that he should weep for her ?
god be wi' you ,  princes all .
sola !
you were best go in .
o god, that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains!
the service and the loyalty i owe, in doing it, pays itself.
in religion, what damned error, but some sober brow will bless it, and approve it with a text, hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
thou hast most kindly hit it.
now lies he there ,  and none so poor to do him reverence .
this is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man’s funeral .
she hath ,  and in that sparing makes huge waste ,  for beauty ,  starved with her severity ,  cuts beauty off from all posterity .
hark you, guildenstern, and you too—at each ear a hearer!
i pray you ,  tell my lord and father ,  madam ,  i will not marry yet .
o slanderous world !
shall we not ?
speak ,  count ,  ’tis your cue .
god’s arm strike with us !
why ,  now ,  as fast as she can marry us .
that is the voice ,  or i am much deceiv'd ,  of portia .
so shall he waste his means ,  weary his soldiers ,  doing himself offense ,  whilst we ,  lying still ,  are full of rest ,  defense ,  and nimbleness .
what think you on't ?
i'faith, sweet love, i was coming to your house.
now know you ,  casca ,  i have moved already some certain of the noblest - minded romans to undergo with me an enterprise of honorable - dangerous consequence; and i do know ,  by this they stay for me in pompey's porch .
o ,  ay ,  as summer flies are in the shambles ,  that quicken even with blowing .
here ,  thou incestuous ,  murderous ,  damned dane ,  drink off this potion !
ay ,  my lord .
no ,  by no means .
and died so?
my lord!
for, by my fay, i cannot reason.
they load caliban with the apparel] [they load caliban with the apparel] hey ,  mountain ,  hey !
why ,  that same pale hard - hearted wench ,  that rosaline ,  torments him so ,  that he will sure run mad .
and what they may incense him to ,  being apt to have his ear abused ,  wisdom bids fear .
i have done.
a contagious breath .
this is the air ,  that is the glorious sun .
i will acquit you .
you are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
ay ,  but the feet were lame and could not bear themselves without the verse ,  and therefore stood lamely in the verse .
well ,  catesby ,  ere a fortnight make me older i’ll send some packing that yet think not on ’t .
malcolm !
i should be wise; for honesty's a fool, and loses that it works for.
what's your grace's will ?
your houses !
now let it work .
but art thou not drowned ,  stephano ?
what trumpet is that same?
i do believe you think what now you speak; but what we do determine oft we break.
thou hast not ,  cousin .
then say they were not slain .
o noble english ,  that could entertain with half their forces the full pride of france and let another half stand laughing by ,  all out of work and cold for action !
and then he offered it the third time .
you have taken it wiselier than i meant you should.
faith, no; as you may season it in the charge.
i perhaps speak this before a willing bondman; then i know my answer must be made .
he lies tonight within seven leagues of rome .
give me my robe, for i will go.
i'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.
this rudeness is a sauce to his good wit ,  which gives men stomach to digest his words with better appetite .
oh ,  it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig - pated fellow tear a passion to tatters ,  to very rags ,  to split the ears of the groundlings ,  who for the most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb - shows and noise .
shed thou no blood; nor cut thou less ,  nor more ,  but just a pound of flesh: if thou tak'st more ,  or less ,  than a just pound , —be it but so much as makes it light ,  or heavy ,  in the substance ,  or the division of the twentieth part of one poor scruple , —nay ,  if the scale do turn but in the estimation of a hair , — thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate .
convey her to my tent .
will not the ladies be afeard of the lion ?
now from head to foot i am marble - constant .
why do you cross me in this exigent ?
ay ,  marry ,  what is he ?
what conquest brings he home ?
thou liest ,  thou shag - haired villain !
as ignorant as dirt!
what day is this?
very like a whale.
some food we had and some fresh water that a noble neapolitan ,  gonzalo ,  out of his charity ,  who being then appointed master of this design ,  did give us ,  with rich garments ,  linens ,  stuffs ,  and necessaries ,  which since have steaded much .
thine eyes ,  sweet lady ,  have infected mine .
fie ,  fie on all tired jades ,  on all mad masters ,  and all foul ways !
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now?
oh !
father ,  i am glad you are come .
i think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation .
your friends are up and buckle on their armor .
good morrow ,  friends .
i was born to speak all mirth and no  matter .
assume a virtue ,  if you have it not .
but who did bid thee join with us ?
or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
the duke and senators of venice greet you .
hold ,  tybalt !
i mean ,  my head upon your lap ?
who is ’t you mean ?
where is my love ?
what's the matter, lady?
my lord— ay ,  what’s o'clock ?
i have brought you from venice.
then let them use us well ,  else let them know ,  the ills we do ,  their ills instruct us so .
i must to the learned.
sir, have pity; i'll be his surety.
but this same cassio ,  though he speak of comfort touching the turkish loss ,  yet he looks sadly and prays the moor be safe; for they were parted with foul and violent tempest .
o life !
give him this deed ,  and let him sign it .
o shame !
serve god .
despair thy charm, and let the angel whom thou still hast served tell thee, macduff was from his mother's womb untimely ripp'd.
well ,  shylock ,  shall we be beholden to you ?
to fly the boar before the boar pursues were to incense the boar to follow us and make pursuit where he did mean no chase .
the clock struck nine when i did send the nurse; in half an hour she promis'd to return .
why ,  how now ,  hecate !
my master hath appointed me to go to saint luke’s to bid the priest be ready to come against you come with your appendix .
she shall not .
that monster, custom, who all sense doth eat of habits evil, is angel yet in this, that to the use of actions fair and good he likewise gives a frock or livery, that aptly is put on.
shall i play my freedom at tray - trip ,  and become thy bondslave ?
good faith, how foolish are our minds!
at my poor house look to behold this night earth - treading stars that make dark heaven light .
thou art the best o' th' cutthroats: yet he’s good that did the like for fleance .
art thou mad ?
that villain cousin would have kill'd my husband .
a howling monster ,  a drunken monster .
i would not follow him then.
no man must know .  ”  if this should be thee ,  malvolio ?
well ,  fare you well ,  my lord .
i will be assured i may; and that i may be assured ,  i will bethink me .
come ,  give us a taste of your quality .
stay ,  tybalt ,  stay !
thou art rash as fire, to say that she was false.
i have done the deed .
that last is true .
as a friend .
cast on no water .
the duke of gloucester ,  to whom the order of the siege is given ,  is altogether directed by an irishman ,  a very valiant gentleman ,  i' faith .
but did you ever tell him she was false?
get thee to bed ,  and rest; for thou hast need .
can i bear that with patience and not my husband's secrets?
give her this key ,  and tell her in the desk that’s cover’d o'er with turkish tapestry there is a purse of ducats .
what is your pleasure ?
i pray you ,  look upon her .
whither wilt thou lead me ?
i will deny thee nothing !
o cursed ,  cursed slave !
not i ,  my lord .
nor know i aught by me that’s said or done amiss this night ,  unless self - charity be sometimes a vice ,  and to defend ourselves it be a sin when violence assails us .
fulvia ?
i pray you ,  know me ,  when we meet again; i wish you well ,  and so i take my leave .
had all his hairs been lives my great revenge had stomach for them all .
what beard were i best to play it in?
the jewels you have had from me to deliver to desdemona would half have corrupted a votarist.
why, how now, ho!
so should he look that seems to speak things strange .
i'll tell my husband, launcelot, what you say; here he comes.
what day is this ?
so ,  by my former lecture and advice ,  shall you my son .
why, i am glad on't.
trip ,  audrey ,  trip ,  audrey . —i attend ,  i attend .
i’ the name of truth ,  are ye fantastical or that indeed which outwardly ye show ?
i must perforce .
you are a tame man; go !
here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned dane, drink off this potion!
where is antony?
to whom do you speak this ?
come, my coach!
yea ,  marry ,  that’s the eftest way . —let the watch come forth .
good father ,  how foolish are our minds !
there is no woman’s sides can bide the beating of so strong a passion as love doth give my heart .
there’s husbandry in heaven; their candles are all out .
and cassio kill'd ?
peter quince,— what sayest thou, bully bottom?
i do not think there is any such woman.
what trumpet is that same ?
therefore be merry ,  cassio ,  for thy solicitor shall rather die than give thy cause away .
what ,  frighted with false fire ?
come, vial.
o dardanius !
prithee, peace!
sir, a whole history.
if hercules and lichas play at dice which is the better man ,  the greater throw may turn by fortune from the weaker hand: so is alcides beaten by his page; and so may i ,  blind fortune leading me ,  miss that which one unworthier may attain ,  and die with grieving .
come, stir, stir, stir!
my lord .
sir ,  this report of his did hamlet so envenom with his envy that he could nothing do but wish and beg your sudden coming o'er to play with you .
o, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain, young man, thou couldst not die more honorable.
thanks for your pains.
what is a traitor ?
love, and be friends, as two such men should be; for i have seen more years, i'm sure, than ye.
bless thee from whirlwinds ,  star - blasting ,  and taking !
i deny it not .
how long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot ?
faith ,  niece ,  you tax signor benedick too much ,  but he’ll be meet with you ,  i doubt it not .
i'll be thy second .
what ,  will you have them weep our horses' blood ?
tis well i am found by you .
you have loved him well; he hath not touch'd you yet .
what sayst thou to him ?
be attentive .
past the mid season.
all three now marry in an instant .
have you a soul or sense ?
heavens rain grace on that which breeds between ’em !
you use this dalliance to excuse your breach of promise to the porpentine .
it is the cry of women ,  my good lord .
now ,  infidel ,  i have you on the hip .
with drink ,  sir ?
you are almost come to part almost a fray .
though birnam wood be come to dunsinane, and thou opposed, being of no woman born, yet i will try the last.
silenced with that, in viewing o'er the rest o’ the selfsame day, he finds thee in the stout norweyan ranks, nothing afeard of what thyself didst make, strange images of death.
the broken rancor of your high - swoll'n hates ,  but lately splintered ,  knit ,  and joined together ,  must gently be preserved ,  cherished ,  and kept .
good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you, and sure i am two men there are not living to whom he more adheres.
by th' clock ’tis day ,  and yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp .
a jealous hood, a jealous hood!
ha !
o day and night ,  but this is wondrous strange !
nor hath love’s mind of any judgment taste— wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste .
out o'th’ moon, i do assure thee: i was the man i'th’ moon when time was.
o, 'tis foul in her.
well run, thisbe.
is ’t possible ?
or ,  if you borrow one another’s love for the instant ,  you may ,  when you hear no more words of pompey ,  return it again .
ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.
heaven rest them now .
how can that be ,  when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in denmark ?
o, be gone!
whose hand soever launched their tender hearts ,  thy head ,  all indirectly ,  gave direction .
for several virtues have i liked several women .
pray you ,  be round with him .
ay ,  if your self’s remembrance wrong yourself .
now is that noble vessel full of grief ,  that it runs over even at his eyes .
lights ,  lights ,  lights !
i thank you ,  sir .
my husband is on earth ,  my faith in heaven .
and shall ,  sir .
adieu ,  my lord .
i' faith ,  if he be not rotten before he die—as we have many pocky corses nowadays that will scarce hold the laying in—he will last you some eight year or nine year .
how now ?
welcome ,  destruction ,  blood ,  and massacre .
what's to do ?
will not king richard let me speak with him ?
where shall we dine ? —o me !
i fear we shall out - sleep the coming morn ,  as much as we this night have overwatch'd .
what means your lordship ?
but what though ?
no more words.
yea ,  dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth ?
o ,  i am out of breath in this fond chase !
would she were hearsed at my foot and the ducats in her coffin !
o, then, what graces in my love do dwell, that he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell!
didst perceive ?
appear thou in the likeness of a sigh; speak but one rhyme ,  and i am satisfied !
the thief gone with so much ,  and so much to find the thief; and no satisfaction ,  no revenge: nor no ill luck stirring but what lights o' my shoulders; no sighs but o' my breathing: no tears but o' my shedding .
what wouldst thou have, laertes?
some twenty of them fought in this black strife ,  and all those twenty could but kill one life .
follow me close, for i will speak to them.
did you perceive how he laughed at his vice ?
that she may long live here ,  god say amen .
romeo !
talk not to me ,  for i’ll not speak a word .
and she goes down at twelve .
i do beseech your grace pardon me ,  who ,  earnest in the service of my god ,  deferred the visitation of my friends .
bliss be upon you!
are you wise ?
signior gremio ,  came you from the church ?
ay ,  in the temple ,  in the town ,  the field you do me mischief .
i found them on a tree .
if this were true ,  then should i know this secret .
i pray you do .
where i have learned me to repent the sin of disobedient opposition to you and your behests ,  and am enjoined by holy lawrence to fall prostrate here to beg your pardon .
or blessè was ’t we did ?
come ,  high or low; thyself and office deftly show !
i heard a bustling rumor like a fray ,  and the wind brings it from the capitol .
to see no pastime i .
no seconds ?
none good ,  my liege ,  to please you with the hearing ,  nor none so bad but well may be reported .
death is my son - in - law .
how much salt water thrown away in waste ,  to season love ,  that of it doth not taste !
alack ,  alack the day !
let her come in.
warm ,  o' my troth .
what's the matter, husband?
think you i am no stronger than my sex, being so father'd and so husbanded?
out, out, brief candle!
coldhearted toward me ?
there’s no offense ,  my lord .
if he have never drunk wine afore ,  it will go near to remove his fit .
i am not drunk now; i can stand well enough ,  and i speak well enough .
ay ,  or drinking ,  fencing ,  swearing ,  quarrelling ,  drabbing .
i’ the name of truth, are ye fantastical or that indeed which outwardly ye show?
no ,  messala .
alas that love, so gentle in his view, should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
what are you ?
farewell .
tis noble kent ,  your friend .
i must hear from thee every day in the hour ,  for in a minute there are many days .
it shall lose thee nothing .
yet my heart throbs to know one thing .
mistress ,  you must come away to your father .
he was wont to lend money for a christian courtesy; let him look to his bond .
labio and flavio ,  set our battles on .
get you to bed again, it is not day.
they have made him drink alms - drink .
did you by indirect and forced courses subdue and poison this young maid's affections ?
my very hairs do mutiny ,  for the white reprove the brown for rashness ,  and they them for fear and doting .
marry ,  sir ,  'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers .
no ,  nor more fearful .
but is there any else longs to see this broken music in his sides ?
i would sing my song without a burden .
i grant i am a woman ,  but withal a woman that lord brutus took to wife .
if thou beest slain and with no stroke of mine, my wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
come ,  for england !
say that thou overheardst us ,  and bid her steal into the pleachèd bower where honeysuckles ripened by the sun forbid the sun to enter ,  like favorites made proud by princes ,  that advance their pride against that power that bred it .
we'll burn his body in the holy place and with the brands fire the traitors' houses .
he’s speaking now ,  or murmuring  “ where’s my serpent of old nile ?  ”  for so he calls me .
exclaim no more against it .
lo you ,  here she comes !
it ripens towards it .
you shall have some part of your will .
i think it freely ,  and betimes in the morning i will beseech the virtuous desdemona to undertake for me .
i saw bassanio and antonio part: bassanio told him, he would make some speed of his return; he answer'd—do not so, slubber not business for my sake, bassanio, but stay the very riping of the time; and for the jew's bond, which he hath of me, let it not enter in your mind of love: be merry; and employ your chiefest thoughts to courtship, and such fair ostents of love, as shall conveniently become you there: and even there, his eye being big with tears, turning his face, he put his hand behind him, and, with affection wondrous sensible, he wrung bassanio's hand, and so they parted.
o, where?
but lest my liking might too sudden seem ,  i would have salved it with a longer treatise .
i remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly; a quarrel, but nothing wherefore.
but next day i told him of myself ,  which was as much as to have asked him pardon .
are you fair ?
ha !
what though i be not so in grace as you, so hung upon with love, so fortunate, but miserable most, to love unloved?
if by direct or by collateral hand they find us touch'd ,  we will our kingdom give ,  our crown ,  our life ,  and all that we call ours ,  to you in satisfaction; but if not ,  be you content to lend your patience to us ,  and we shall jointly labour with your soul to give it due content .
rightly to be great is not to stir without great argument ,  but greatly to find quarrel in a straw when honour's at the stake .
gentlemen !
you said the enemy would not come down, but keep the hills and upper regions.
speak softly .
tush ,  thou art deceived .
her father loved me, oft invited me, still question'd me the story of my life from year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes, that i have pass'd.
am i not stayed for ?
the next ,  our ship— which ,  but three glasses since ,  we gave out split— is tight and yare and bravely rigged as when we first put out to sea .
lord ,  what fools these mortals be !
what hast thou found?
how now ,  my noble friend ?
you shall have gold to pay the petty debt twenty times over .
when this advice is free i give and honest ,  probal to thinking ,  and indeed the course to win the moor again ?
what are you ?
spake you with him ?
but i will write again to mantua ,  and keep her at my cell till romeo come .
gentlemen ,  you are welcome to elsinore .
master ,  mean you so ?
seek thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without her.
well may it sort that this portentous figure comes armed through our watch ,  so like the king that was and is the question of these wars .
away with it !
now lies he there ,  and none so poor to do him reverence .
i am afeard ,  being in night ,  all this is but a dream ,  too flattering sweet to be substantial .
to ferdinand] if i have too austerely punished you, [to ferdinand] if i have too your compensation makes amends, for i have given you here a third of mine own life— or that for which i live—who once again i tender to thy hand.
shall i not have barely my principal?
come, some music!
i shall attend you presently at your tent .
petruchio ,  go thy ways; the field is won .
oh ,  are you come ,  iago ?
for what good turn ?
i have been told so of many .
what think you of the scottish lord, his neighbour?
we are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.
by heaven ,  i rather would have been his hangman .
i'll keep my oath ,  patiently to bear my wroth .
tell her my love ,  more noble than the world ,  prizes not quantity of dirty lands; the parts that fortune hath bestowed upon her ,  tell her ,  i hold as giddily as fortune; but ’tis that miracle and queen of gems that nature pranks her in attracts my soul .
lover !
to that end ,  as matching to his youth and vanity ,  i did present him with the paris balls .
o villain!
o my poor rosalind ,  whither wilt thou go ?
i met this man with my glove in his cap ,  and i have been as good as my word .
let her be round with him ,  and i’ll be placed ,  so please you ,  in the ear of all their conference .
quite chop-fallen?
and this man is now become a god ,  and cassius is a wretched creature ,  and must bend his body if caesar carelessly but nod on him .
what is to be said to him ,  lady ?
inquire the jew's house out, give him this deed, and let him sign it; we'll away to-night, and be a day before our husbands home.
that very time i saw (but thou couldst not) flying between the cold moon and the earth ,  cupid all armed .
your name ,  sir ,  truly .
i shall not dine at home; i meet the captains at the citadel .
it would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
twas you we laughed at .
i did say so when first i raised the tempest .
by isis ,  i will give thee bloody teeth if thou with caesar paragon again my man of men .
you had musty victual ,  and he hath holp to eat it .
let us go, for it is after midnight, and ere day we will awake him and be sure of him.
a roman .
this is a slight ,  unmeritable man ,  meet to be sent on errands .
i pray thee ,  stay with us ,  go not to wittenberg .
if thou doubt it ,  thou mayst slide from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my neck .
i have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs; for it hath been said, ‘as proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground.’ and it shall be said so again, while stephano breathes at nostrils.
no ,  lad .
if thou follow him ,  thou must needs wear my coxcomb . —how now ,  nuncle ?
i am for you .
these vows are hermia's.
oh ,  look !
you do advance your cunning more and more.
hold ,  sir ,  for god’s sake !
advise the duke where you are going ,  to a most festinate preparation .
no ,  dear queen ,  for we intend so to dispose you as yourself shall give us counsel .
let good antonio look he keep his day ,  or he shall pay for this .
you were best to call them generally, man by man, according to the scrip.
since i have your good leave to go away, i will make haste: but, till i come again, no bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay, nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.
thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft ,  and wit depends on dilatory time .
she turn'd to folly ,  and she was a whore .
but yet i run before my horse to market .
no tongue ,  all eyes !
tyrants themselves wept when it was reported .
so to them both .
how now ?
bring him before us .
this cannot be ,  by no assay of reason .
a messenger from caesar .
say thou but  “ ay ,  ”  and that bare vowel  than the death - darting eye of cockatrice .
and this our life ,  exempt from public haunt ,  finds tongues in trees ,  books in the running brooks ,  sermons in stones ,  and good in everything .
do as i bid thee ,  go .
what ,  ho !
it is the prince of palfreys .
you have loved him well; he hath not touch'd you yet.
why ,  love ,  i say .
lysander and myself will fly this place .
pray you avoid it.
then ,  to answer every man directly and briefly ,  wisely and truly—wisely i say ,  i am a bachelor .
we all stand up against the spirit of caesar ,  and in the spirit of men there is no blood .
no .
and then it started, like a guilty thing upon a fearful summons.
do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
it hath made me mad .
to stephano and trinculo] hence ,  and bestow your lug -  [to stephano and trinculo] hence ,  and bestow your lug -  gage where you found it .
a trim exploit, a manly enterprise, to conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes with your derision!
thou did promise to bate me a full year.
myself will straight aboard ,  and to the state this heavy act with heavy heart relate .
and even for that do i love you the more .
octavius ,  i have seen more days than you .
what, ho!
but i can- not choose but weep, to think they would lay him i' the cold ground.
my sword is drawn .
why ,  very well then .
let him speak ,  my lord ,  upon his peril ,  that i have reserved to myself nothing .
sawst thou the melancholy lord northumberland ?
where is demetrius?
by which honor i dare not swear thou lovest me ,  yet my blood begins to flatter me that thou dost ,  notwithstanding the poor and untempering effect of my visage .
thou hast described a hot friend cooling .
god rest you merry ,  sir .
as i discern, it burneth in the capels’ monument.
o ,  pardon me for bringing these ill news ,  since you did leave it for my office ,  sir .
he, being remiss, most generous and free from all contriving, will not peruse the foils; so that with ease, or with a little shuffling, you may choose a sword unbated, and in a pass of practice, requite him for your father.
god save you, sir!
what’s your grace’s will ?
banquo and macbeth, all hail!
let me hear from you .
and so she did.
wilt thou slay thyself ?
iago?
he dares not come there for the candle; for, you see, it is already in snuff.
hold ,  take my sword .
i will not stay tonight for all the town .
wilt thou have me ?
come hither ,  good volumnius .
look what is done cannot be now amended .
but ,  orderly to end where i begun ,  our wills and fates do so contrary run that our devices still are overthrown; our thoughts are ours ,  their ends none of our own .
lord, what though?
titania ,  music call; and strike more dead than common sleep of all these five the sense .
ha ,  ha !
go to ,  thou art made ,  if thou desirest to be so— ”  am i made ?
sir ,  by your patience: if i heard you rightly ,  the duke hath put on a religious life and thrown into neglect the pompous court .
but it is no matter .
your voice shall be as strong as any man’s in the disposing of new dignities .
what malice was between you ?
speak once again.
go ,  captain ,  from me greet the danish king .
it is the part of men to fear and tremble when the most mighty gods by tokens send such dreadful heralds to astonish us .
if't be not for some purpose of import, give't me again.
tis such another fitchew !
who was't came by?
my people do already know my mind and will acknowledge you and jessica in place of lord bassanio and myself .
lend me a looking - glass .
oh ,  then ,  what graces in my love do dwell ,  that he hath turned a heaven unto a hell !
therefore you must needs play pyramus .
yes ,  you have seen cassio and she together .
it well appears .
i said thou hadst a fine wit .
good repose the while.
we'll put the matter to the present push . — good gertrude ,  set some watch over your son .
i'll have grounds more relative than this.
don pedro is approached .
what foul play had we that we came from thence ?
so i am—to let him live .
what, nurse, i say!
yes, it doth shine that night.
tell me ,  for more certainty ,  albeit i'll swear that i do know your tongue .
we'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
dost understand the word?
leave you!
ay ,  casca .
if consequence do but approve my dream my boat sails freely ,  both with wind and stream .
go ,  hang yourselves all !
what’s he ?
what you have spoke ,  it may be so perchance .
faith ,  he tonight hath boarded a land carrack .
yet if thou say antony lives ,  is well ,  or friends with caesar ,  or not captive to him ,  i’ll set thee in a shower of gold and hail rich pearls upon thee .
if i were brutus now and he were cassius ,  he should not humor me .
how now ,  roderigo !
deny me this ,  and an eternal curse fall on you !
stayed it long ?
she hath spied him already with those sweet eyes .
thieves!
thou know’st the mask of night is on my face ,  else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek for that which thou hast heard me speak tonight .
cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
his horses go about.
if any ,  speak ,  for him have i offended .
only for this ,  i pray you ,  pardon me .
alas ,  then she is drown'd ?
treason!
i understand not what you mean by this.
and the rarest that e'er came there .
god pardon them that are the cause thereof .
this, decius brutus.
thou may ’st revenge —o slave !
lend me thy cloak ,  sir thomas .
god knows when we shall meet again .
lear’s shadow .
will you go ,  coz ?
for i do know, the state, however this may gall him with some check, cannot with safety cast him; for he's embark'd with such loud reason to the cyprus' wars, which even now stands in act, that, for their souls, another of his fathom they have none to lead their business; in which regard, though i do hate him as i do hell-pains, yet for necessity of present life, i must show out a flag and sign of love, which is indeed but sign.
you wrong me more ,  sir ,  in denying it .
but had he such a chain of thee or no ?
i would fain prove so .
listen but speak not to ’t .
thou art as wise as thou art beautiful .
we'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors .
do you know me ,  father ?
i’ll serve this duke .
farewell ,  farewell .
here comes the good macduff .
the very conveyances of his lands will scarcely lie in this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
a strange fish !
god defend me from these two !
we are blest that rome is rid of him.
my lord bassanio gave his ring away unto the judge that begg'd it, and, indeed, deserv'd it too; and then the boy, his clerk, that took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine: and neither man, nor master, would take aught but the two rings.
by the gods, you shall digest the venom of your spleen, though it do split you, for, from this day forth, i'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter, when you are waspish.
where, where, messala, doth his body lie?
what o'clock to-morrow shall i send to thee?
not we .
i’ll not fight with thee .
you are deceived .
he sups tonight with a harlotry ,  and thither will i go to him .
how is ’t ,  laertes ?
whate’er becomes of me ,  this is a soldier’s kiss .
when the mind’s free ,  the body’s delicate .
a friend of antony's .
the portrait of a blinking idiot, presenting me a schedule!
noble banquo, that hast no less deserved, nor must be known no less to have done so; let me enfold thee and hold thee to my heart.
their great guilt ,  like poison given to work a great time after ,  now 'gins to bite the spirits .
most true .
very many ,  men and women too .
she turn'd to folly, and she was a whore.
come ,  hamlet ,  come ,  and take this hand from me .
and you too ,  gentle hero ?
not so ,  my lord .
i’ll make so bold to call ,  for ’tis my limited service .
villain am i none.
my lord ?
i fear we shall out-sleep the coming morn, as much as we this night have overwatch'd.
not tonight ,  good iago .
why ,  fear not ,  man ,  i will not forfeit it; within these two months , —that's a month before this bond expires , —i do expect return of thrice three times the value of this bond .
but i am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ ,  and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ .
i am your wife if you will marry me .
whose was it?
arise ,  and say how thou camest here .
i must attend mine office ,  or would have done ’t myself .
no farther than the tower ,  and ,  as i guess ,  upon the like devotion as yourselves ,  to gratulate the gentle princes there .
look ,  look ,  a mouse !
i'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye ,  'tis but the pale reflex of cynthia's brow; nor that is not the lark whose notes do beat the vaulty heaven so high above our heads .
let me not hinder, cassius, your desires; i'll leave you.
foh !
i will watch tonight .
but, like a sickness, did i loathe this food; but, as in health, come to my natural taste, now i do wish it, love it, long for it, and will for evermore be true to it.
did this in caesar seem ambitious?
she speaks.
do you think i meant country matters?
i wish your horses swift and sure of foot ,  and so i do commend you to their backs .
is ’t possible ,  friend litio ,  that mistress bianca doth fancy any other but lucentio ?
how is it with you ,  my most fair bianca ?
madam ?
this even-handed justice commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice to our own lips.
o murderous coxcomb!
he were a brave monster indeed ,  if they were set in his tail .
i have more care to stay than will to go .
enough; hold ,  or cut bow - strings .
what wouldst thou write of me ,  if thou shouldst praise me ?
oh ,  it is my love .
there lives within the very flame of love a kind of wick or snuff that will abate it; and nothing is at a like goodness still; for goodness, growing to a pleurisy, dies in his own too much.
an if your wife be not a mad woman ,  and know how well i have deserv'd the ring ,  she would not hold out enemy for ever ,  for giving it to me .
friends both ,  go join you with some further aid .
an they be not ,  let them hang themselves in their own straps .
indeed ,  my lord ,  it is a most absolute and excellent horse .
have all his ventures fail'd ?
this island’s mine ,  by sycorax my mother ,  which thou takest from me .
where they most breed and haunt ,  i have observed ,  the air is delicate .
mine ache to think on't .
a coward ,  a most devout coward ,  religious in it .
and so have i a noble father lost; a sister driven into desperate terms, whose worth, if praises may go back again, stood challenger on mount of all the age for her perfections.
o ,  are you come ,  iago ?
here's romeo's man .
unto the dignity and height of fortune ,  the high imperial type of this earth’s glory .
brutus is wise, and, were he not in health, he would embrace the means to come by it.
hence !
thus conscience does make cowards of us all, and thus the native hue of resolution is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought, and enterprises of great pitch and moment with this regard their currents turn awry and lose the name of action.
for love of god ,  forbear him !
i'll cross it, though it blast me.
these couchings and these lowly courtesies might fire the blood of ordinary men and turn preordinance and first decree into the law of children .
courage .
marry, sir, to bid my old master the jew to sup to-night with my new master the christian.
god keep you from them ,  and from such false friends .
and what's he then that says i play the villain?
iago ?
thou wouldst else have made thy tale large .
tis not so now .
no ,  my dear'st love ,  i would not for the world .
for whose sake did i that ill deed ?
stand close; this is the same athenian.
which of you trembles not that looks on me ?
where be these bloody thieves?
by what?
how do you ,  women ?
pray you avoid it .
no ,  by the rood ,  not so !
fiery ”  ?
i do desire you not to deny this imposition, the which my love, and some necessity, now lays upon you.
what it is ,  my caius ,  i shall unfold to thee as we are going to whom it must be done .
by my troth ,  i speak my thought .
my lord of gloucester hath conveyed him hence .
i will not .
i see him rouse himself to praise my noble act .
o gull !
nothing that i respect ,  my gracious lord .
to pay five ducats ,  five ,  i would not farm it; nor will it yield to norway or the pole a ranker rate ,  should it be sold in fee .
yet they are not joined .
who’s there ?
this hebrew will turn christian; he grows kind.
my lord ,  i cannot .
he needs as many ,  sir ,  as caesar has ,  or needs not us .
first, i must tell thee this: desdemona is directly in love with him.
how can that be ,  when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in denmark ?
tell me .
if thou kill’st me ,  boy ,  thou shalt kill a man .
what ,  ho ,  brabantio !
well then ,  it now appears you need my help .
i am not bound to please thee with my answers .
good ,  speak to the mariners .
i would be friends with you and have your love ,  forget the shames that you have stained me with ,  supply your present wants and take no doit of usance for my moneys—and you’ll not hear me !
i hear it by the way; but i will send .
say what ,  is horatio there ?
had i it written ,  i would tear the word .
even now ,  sir .
would you would bear your fortune like a man!
be not lost so poorly in your thoughts .
is it e'en so ?
what’s antony ?
o ,  insupportable !
yet, 'tis the plague of great ones; prerogatived are they less than the base; 'tis destiny unshunnable, like death: even then this forked plague is fated to us when we do quicken.
time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides ,  who covers faults at last with shame derides .
love wrought these miracles .
first ,  marcus brutus ,  will i shake with you; next ,  caius cassius ,  do i take your hand; now ,  decius brutus ,  yours; now yours ,  metellus; yours ,  cinna; and ,  my valiant casca ,  yours; though last ,  not least in love ,  yours ,  good trebonius .
shall i strike at it with my partisan?
let your highness command upon me ,  to the which my duties are with a most indissoluble tie forever knit .
though in the trade of war i have slain men ,  yet do i hold it very stuff o' the conscience to do no contrived murder .
then how can it be said i am alone when all the world is here to look on me?
every inordinate cup is unblest, and the ingredient is a devil.
hie to high fortune!
to sebastian] temperance was a delicate wench.
ho ,  now you strike like the blind man .
now will i go to take some privy order to draw the brats of clarence out of sight ,  and to give order that no manner of person have any time recourse unto the princes .
if you think i come hither as a lion ,  it were pity of my life .
do you not see that i am out of breath ?
will you come presently ?
say i will love her everlastingly .
my mistress here lies murdered in her bed.
lorenzo ,  certain; and my love ,  indeed; for who love i so much ?
o julius caesar ,  thou art mighty yet !
now ,  soldiers ,  march away ,  and how thou pleasest ,  god ,  dispose the day .
when jacob grazed his uncle laban’s sheep— this jacob from our holy abram was ,  as his wise mother wrought in his behalf ,  the third possessor ,  ay ,  he was the third— and what of him ?
lord alexas ,  sweet alexas ,  most anything alexas ,  almost most absolute alexas ,  where’s the soothsayer that you praised so to th’ queen ?
i am tame, sir.
not a jot more ,  my lord .
would none but i might venge my cousin's death!
of all the days i' the year ,  i came to ’t that day that our last king hamlet overcame fortinbras .
two o'clock is your hour ?
faith ,  the priest was good enough ,  for all the old gentleman’s saying .
what ,  were you snarling all before i came ,  ready to catch each other by the throat ,  and turn you all your hatred now on me ?
my mother!
and what should i do in illyria ?
take that ,  and that .
mother, you have my father much offended.
bloody constraint ,  for if you hide the crown even in your hearts ,  there will he rake for it .
blind is his love and best befits the dark .
tis unnatural, even like the deed that's done.
anything .
who must hang them ?
we have lost your son ,  i fear ,  forever .
avoid ,  and leave him .
romeo must not live .
the ground indeed is tawny .
it is well done and fitting for a princess descended of so many royal kings .
why ,  such is love's transgression .
oh ,  then ,  i see queen mab hath been with you .
well ,  i must leave her company .
in few, ophelia, do not believe his vows; for they are brokers, not of that dye which their investments show, but mere implorators of unholy suits, breathing like sanctified and pious bonds, the better to beguile.
enough ,  i am engaged .
in happy time .
not from his mouth, had it the ability of life to thank you.
nay ,  stay and hear me speak .
i swear to thee ,  youth ,  by the white hand of rosalind ,  i am that he ,  that unfortunate he .
now, mother, what's the matter?
ha !
but ere we could arrive the point proposed ,  caesar cried ,   “ help me ,  cassius ,  or i sink !  ”  i ,  as aeneas ,  our great ancestor ,  did from the flames of troy upon his shoulder the old anchises bear ,  so from the waves of tiber did i the tired caesar .
saw you him today ?
ay .
why ,  may one ask ?
ay ,  so ,  god be wi' ye !
even as a flatt'ring dream or worthless fancy .
for i am trinculo—be not afeard—thy good friend trinculo .
this lanthorn doth the horned moon present; myself the man i' the moon do seem to be.
i am a villain .
so please your majesty that we may wake the king ?
ha !
o god, horatio, what a wounded name, things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
from hence to inverness, and bind us further to you.
come ,  how wouldst thou praise me ?
i talked with no man at that hour ,  my lord .
so will it ,  madam till i lie with you .
we'll put on those shall praise your excellence and set a double varnish on the fame the frenchman gave you ,  bring you in fine together and wager on your heads .
i know you are no truant .
not for thy fairy kingdom.
we'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings— i ha't!
why should i play the roman fool and die on mine own sword ?
come ,  dolabella ,  see high order in this great solemnity .
why ,  say they are vile and false; as where's that palace where in to foul things sometimes intrude not ?
come hither ,  nurse .
i will read it .
i do remember me ,  henry the sixth did prophesy that richmond should be king ,  when richmond was a little peevish boy .
it is no matter how witty ,  so it be eloquent and full of invention .
o woful time !
sweets to the sweet !
had all his hairs been lives ,  my great revenge had stomach for them all .
kill brutus ,  and be honored in his death .
for this time i will leave you .
searching the window for a flint i found this paper thus seal'd up, and i am sure it did not lie there when i went to bed.
what ,  of venice ?
thy head is as full of quar rels as an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarrelling.
my door is lock’d .
good friend ,  be gone .
yet, countrymen, o, yet hold up your heads!
what’s thy name ?
no more but e’en a woman ,  and commanded by such poor passion as the maid that milks and does the meanest chares .
advise your fellows so .
i understand you not ,  my lord .
so is he now in execution of any bold or noble enterprise, however he puts on this tardy form.
i eat the air, promise-cramm'd.
no—yes, sure.
and neigh ,  and bark ,  and grunt ,  and roar ,  and burn ,  like horse ,  hound ,  hog ,  bear ,  fire ,  at every turn .
none of these rogues and cowards but ajax is their fool .
heaven preserve you!
dead, dead?
the excuse that thou dost make in this delay is longer than the tale thou dost excuse .
where was she born?
prepare you ,  generals .
ay ,  madam ,  but returns again tonight .
hold off thy hand!
therefore, as i am bound, receive it from me.
thou wouldst be great; art not without ambition ,  but without the illness should attend it .
for all ,  our thanks .
hum!
true hope is swift ,  and flies with swallow’s wings .
macduff, this noble passion, child of integrity, hath from my soul wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts to thy good truth and honor.
you shall confess that you are both deceived.
let him bless thee too.
but when shall we set the savage bull’s horns on the sensible benedick’s head ?
for i tell you ,  father ,  i am as peremptory as she proud - minded; and where two raging fires meet together ,  they do consume the thing that feeds their fury .
what ,  ho !
who am i ,  sir ?
which their keepers call a lightning before death .
demetrius and egeus ,  go along; i must employ you in some business against our nuptial ,  and confer with you of something nearly that concerns yourselves .
give me mine angle .
make me not offended in your distrust .
what means your grace ?
by this leek ,  i will most horribly revenge .
i am not such an ass ,  but i can keep my hand dry .
dost thou say so ?
o, let the heavens give him defense against the elements, for i have lost him on a dangerous sea.
god’s peace ,  i would not lose so great an honor as one man more ,  methinks ,  would share from me ,  for the best hope i have .
this way, my lord; the castle's gently render'd.
well ,  i will undertake it .
thou knowest my lodging.
refuse it not .
the thief gone with so much, and so much to find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge: nor no ill luck stirring but what lights o' my shoulders; no sighs but o' my breathing: no tears but o' my shedding.
then tell me if this might be a brother .
my noble lords and cousins all ,  good morrow .
list his discourse of war ,  and you shall hear a fearful battle rendered you in music .
i will ,  sir .
i must needs wake you.
nobody .
do ,  i prithee ,  but yet have the grace to consider that tears do not become a man .
at nine i' the morning here we'll meet again.
speak ,  hands ,  for me !
here comes lorenzo;—more of this hereafter .
i will.
do it .
you shall not choose but drink before you go .
a trade ,  sir ,  that i hope i may use with a safe conscience ,  which is ,  indeed ,  sir ,  a mender of bad soles .
by and by' is easily said .
my master stays in the street .
and do but see his vice; 'tis to his virtue a just equinox ,  the one as long as the other .
and you ,  sir .
tis a fearful odds .
o child!
in happy time ,  iago .
i see two husbands ,  or mine eyes deceive me .
nay, let's follow him.
softly ,  my masters .
my father dead ,  my fortune lives for me .
if but as well i other accents borrow ,  that can my speech diffuse ,  my good intent may carry through itself to that full issue for which i razed my likeness .
the old proverb is very well parted between my master shylock and you, sir; you have the grace of god, sir, and he hath enough.
fetch forth the stocks !
you may convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty and yet seem cold ,  the time you may so hoodwink .
sure ,  it was the roar of a whole herd of lions .
sure ,  these are but imaginary wiles ,  and lapland sorcerers inhabit here .
twas a sweet marriage ,  and we prosper well in our return .
for heaven's sake ,  help me !
he whom next thyself of all the world i loved and to him put the manage of my state ,  as at that time through all the signories it was the first ,  and prospero the prime duke ,  being so reputed in dignity ,  and for the liberal arts without a parallel .
despis'd ,  distressed ,  hated ,  martyr'd ,  kill'd !
peace ,  doting wizard ,  peace .
are not you he that frights the maidens of the villagery, skim milk, and sometimes labor in the quern, and bootless make the breathless housewife churn, and sometime make the drink to bear no barm, mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm?
ho, ho, ho!
what to him from england ?
now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber .
what is the time o' th' day ?
at such a time i'll loose my daughter to him.
our general cast us thus early for the love of his desdemona; who let us not therefore blame.
long stayed he so .
pretty soul!
you shall mark many a duteous and kneecrooking knave, that doting on his own obsequious bondage wears out his time, much like his master's ass, for naught but provender; and, when he's old, cashier'd.
and steep'd in blood?
indeed ,  upon my sword ,  indeed .
prithee ,  keep up thy quillets .
my lord constable ,  the armor that i saw in your tent tonight ,  are those stars or suns upon it ?
my good lysander!
well said!
sir ,  you are very welcome to our house .
i beseech you ,  let his lack of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation; for i never knew so young a body with so old a head .
prithee ,  my king ,  be quiet .
i prithee ,  boy ,  run to the senate - house; stay not to answer me ,  but get thee gone .
the poor monster's my subject ,  and he shall not suffer indignity .
no ,  faith ,  i’ll not stay a jot longer .
why ,  i' faith ,  methinks she’s too low for a high praise ,  too brown for a fair praise ,  and too little for a great praise .
o grim-look'd night!
is the king stirring ,  worthy thane ?
y' have ungently ,  brutus ,  stole from my bed .
that way the noise is .
sirrah ,  naked fellow— poor tom’s a - cold .
with cassio ,  mistress .
here .
let me alone .
that’s good .
how if he will not stand ?
good friends ,  go in and taste some wine with me ,  and we like friends will straightway go together .
now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die .
if then that friend demand why brutus rose against caesar ,  this is my answer: not that i loved caesar less ,  but that i loved rome more .
come ,  there is sauce for it .
all disconsolate, with pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
how should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
tis a monster begot upon itself ,  born on itself .
octavius ,  lead your battle softly on ,  upon the left hand of the even field .
i must prevent thee ,  cimber .
in any case ,  let thisbe have clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion pare his nails ,  for they shall hang out for the lion's claws .
for all the rest ,  let lion ,  moonshine ,  wall ,  and lovers twain ,  at large discourse while here they do remain .
there’s not a man i meet but doth salute me as if i were their well - acquainted friend ,  and every one doth call me by my name .
therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
wrong not her birth .
thou wilt write to antony ?
i have heard the cock, that is the trumpet to the morn, doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat awake the god of day, and at his warning, whether in sea or fire, in earth or air, the extravagant and erring spirit hies to his confine; and of the truth herein this present object made probation.
this lion is a very fox for his valour .
then say at once what thou dost know in this .
well, think of marriage now.
pray you ,  leave your courtesy ,  good monsieur .
my wife kill'd too?
how now ,  interjections ?
uneven is the course; i like it not.
if that the earth could teem with woman's tears, each drop she falls would prove a crocodile.
if ,  duke of burgundy ,  you would the peace ,  whose want gives growth to th' imperfections which you have cited ,  you must buy that peace with full accord to all our just demands ,  whose tenors and particular effects you have ,  enscheduled briefly ,  in your hands .
it may be ,  these apparent prodigies ,  the unaccustomed terror of this night ,  and the persuasion of his augurers may hold him from the capitol today .
god mark thee to his grace !
nay, but hear me: pardon this fault, and by my soul i swear, i never more will break an oath with thee.
what, lucius!
there are no tricks in plain and simple faith; but hollow men ,  like horses hot at hand ,  make gallant show and promise of their mettle; but when they should endure the bloody spur ,  they fall their crests and like deceitful jades sink in the trial .
let it be so .
i am yet unknown to woman ,  never was forsworn ,  scarcely have coveted what was mine own ,  at no time broke my faith ,  would not betray the devil to his fellow ,  and delight no less in truth than life .
how ,  how ,  cordelia ?
you do not mind the play .
peace ,  fool .
the foul practice hath turned itself on me .
shall i deny you ?
aside] poor worm, thou art infected!
i cannot speak any beginning to this peevish odds ,  and would in action glorious i had lost those legs that brought me to a part of it .
nay ,  i will give thee a kiss .
your answer to that ?
give me some help .
when i told you my state was nothing, i should then have told you that i was worse than nothing; for, indeed, i have engag'd myself to a dear friend, engag'd my friend to his mere enemy, to feed my means.
say ,   “ the brave antony .  ”                                                  the valiant caesar !
methinks they are such a gentle nation that ,  but for the mountain of mad flesh
yet ,  when i saw it last ,  it was besmeared as black as vulcan in the smoke of war .
i am no more mad than you are .
ay ,  or drinking ,  fencing ,  swearing ,  quarreling ,  drabbing—you may go so far .
caesar is sad ,  and lepidus ,  since pompey’s feast ,  as menas says ,  is troubled with the greensickness .
besides ,  in mercy ,  the constable desires thee thou wilt mind thy followers of repentance ,  that their souls may make a peaceful and a sweet retire from off these fields where ,  wretches ,  their poor bodies must lie and fester .
it was wont to hold me but while one tells twenty .
you have no stomach ,  signior .
do ,  if it will not stand .
my master is the great rich capulet; and if you be not of the house of montagues, i pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
othello ,  leave some officer behind and he shall our commission bring to you ,  and such things else of quality and respect as doth import you .
i am sure he is in the fleet .
this cannot anger him .
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  fire burn ,  and cauldron bubble .
mark antony is in your tents ,  my lord .
when the wind is southerly i know a hawk from a handsaw.
good, yet remember whom thou has aboard.
in the corrupted currents of this world offense’s gilded hand may shove by justice ,  and oft ’tis seen the wicked prize itself buys out the law .
the one of them contains my picture ,  prince .
i hope you do not mean to cheat me so .
murder and treason !
where's this girl ?
who comes so fast in silence of the night ?
i am called dercetus .
yea,’ quoth my husband, ‘fall'st upon thy face?
i have a reasonable good ear in music.
how is't with you ,  my lord ?
why ,  as i told thee ,  ’tis a custom with him ,  i' th' afternoon to sleep .
my dear lord ,  you know the fiery quality of the duke ,  how unremoveable and fixed he is in his own course .
tis not unknown to you, antonio, how much i have disabled mine estate, by something showing a more swelling port than my faint means would grant continuance: nor do i now make moan to be abridg'd from such a noble rate; but my chief care is to come fairly off from the great debts wherein my time, something too prodigal, hath left me gag'd.
now sit we close about this taper here and call in question our necessities .
o ,  what men dare do !
if thou art fickle, what dost thou with him that is renown'd for faith?
give you good morrow ,  sir .
i promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now .
how comes it, michael, you are thus forgot?
pray heaven i be deceived in you .
to the mariners] play the men!
i have wasted myself out of my means.
mark antony ,  shall we give sign of battle ?
i shall ,  my lord .
but o ,  how oddly will it sound that i must ask my child forgiveness !
very strangely ,  they say .
go ,  eros ,  send his treasure after .
for ,  by my fay ,  i cannot reason .
i do beseech you ,  give him leave to go .
nay ,  an there were two such ,  we should have none shortly ,  for one would kill the other .
is thy news good or bad ?
o ,  i am slain !
i am right loath to go .
do thy duty ,  and have thy duty ,  for my master and mistress are almost frozen to death .
let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
the duke and senators of venice greet you .
capulet, montage, see what a scourge is laid upon your hate, that heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
las ,  what's the matter ?
no ,  none that thou hast wit enough to make .
but ,  sure ,  the bravery of his grief did put me into a towering passion .
is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble ?
nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine, it sends some precious instance of itself after the thing it loves.
but i am much to blame .
have i ,  my lord ?
and here’s a marvelous convenient place for our rehearsal .
why do you keep alone, of sorriest fancies your companions making, using those thoughts which should indeed have died with them they think on?
most veritable; therefore look to't well .
i am dumb.
i do confess my fault ,  and do submit me to your highness' mercy .
one of my fellows had the speed of him, who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more than would make up his message.
when i was with him ,  i have heard him swear to tubal ,  and to chus ,  his countrymen ,  that he would rather have antonio's flesh ,  than twenty times the value of the sum that he did owe him; and i know ,  my lord ,  if law ,  authority ,  and power deny not ,  it will go hard with poor antonio .
oh ,  i am slain ! —my lord ,  you have one eye left to see some mischief on him .
how is the man esteemed here in the city ?
i am poison'd.
o thou othello ,  that wert once so good ,  what shall be said to thee ?
caesar ,  i never stood on ceremonies ,  yet now they fright me .
prithee, come; will you?
thou hast a sister by the mother’s side ,  admired octavia .
it is too hard a knot for me to untie !
friar !
well moused ,  lion .
be’st thou sad or merry ,  the violence of either thee becomes ,  so does it no man else . —mett’st thou my posts ?
is ’t come to this ?
where be thy tenants and thy followers ?
where is the beauteous majesty of denmark?
get thee gone.
there be some such ,  no question .
there’s a bargain made .
not a soul but felt a fever of the mad and played some tricks of desperation .
i must eat my dinner .
but pardon me.
what should i do ?
o worthiest cousin!
think of it .
what mean you, caesar?
and mine, two hundred.
thou are too like the spirit of banquo.
enough; hold, or cut bow-strings.
and be not jealous on me, gentle brutus; were i a common laugher, or did use to stale with ordinary oaths my love to every new protester, if you know that i do fawn on men and hug them hard and after scandal them, or if you know that i profess myself in banqueting to all the rout, then hold me dangerous.
hold off your hands!
this same skull ,  sir ,  was yorick's skull ,  the king's jester .
silenced with that ,  in viewing o'er the rest o’ the selfsame day ,  he finds thee in the stout norweyan ranks ,  nothing afeard of what thyself didst make ,  strange images of death .
he shall live a man forbid .
madman !
why, your lieutenant, cassio.
did not great julius bleed for justice' sake ?
it will not speak; then will i follow it.
villain ,  not for thy life !
i ne'er saw this before .
seek none ,  conspiracy; hide it in smiles and affability; for if thou path ,  thy native semblance on ,  not erebus itself were dim enough to hide thee from prevention .
he did, from first to last.
how does thy honour ?
i’ll follow this good man ,  and go with you; and ,  having sworn truth ,  ever will be true .
and when you saw his chariot but appear, have you not made an universal shout, that tiber trembled underneath her banks to hear the replication of your sounds made in her concave shores?
i know the hand: in faith ,  'tis a fair hand; and whiter than the paper it writ on ,  is the fair hand that writ .
and even for that do i love you the more.
both with an  ah ,  mocker ,  that’s the dog’s name .
i am out of all other tune ,  methinks .
and for thy life let justice be accus'd .
what ,  dead ,  my dove ?
what horrible fancy’s this ?
how if fair and foolish ?
my lord ,  you play'd once i' th' university ,  you say ?
who's there ,  i’ the name of belzebub ?
who's there ?
this castle hath a pleasant seat; the air nimbly and sweetly recommends itself unto our gentle senses .
thou art to die .
there needs no ghost ,  my lord ,  come from the grave to tell us this .
emilia ,  come .
all the power of his wits have given way to his impatience .
i will be with thee straight .
why ,  let her except ,  before excepted .
that face of his i do remember well .
where hast thou been ,  sister ?
cursed be my tribe if i forgive him !
a wandering knight ?
there i deny my land service .
he speaks home ,  madam .
i shall win at the odds .
well ,  i will thither .
anon.
o thou public commoner !
not now, sweet desdemona; some other time.
is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
where died she ?
can heaven be so envious ?
o strange!
he shall not live; look ,  with a spot i damn him .
thy mother’s poisoned .
no ,  i’ll not weep .
if she be fair and wise, fairness and wit, the one's for use, the other useth it.
even or odd, of all days in the year, come lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen.
if they speak but truth of her ,  these hands shall tear her; if they wrong her honor ,  the proudest of them shall well hear of it .
i think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb .
no .
othello, leave some officer behind, and he shall our commission bring to you; with such things else of quality and respect as doth import you.
god quit you in his mercy .
my good friends, hark!
to cry  “ amen ”  to that ,  thus we appear .
in honest plainness thou hast heard me say my daughter is not for thee .
exit romeo.
i say, we will have no more marriages.
why ,  here is the note of the fashion to testify .
unless you could teach me to forget a banished father ,  you must not learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure .
his affections do not that way tend .
how long within this wood intend you stay ?
is not the leaf turned down where i left reading ?
those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel; but do not dull thy palm with entertainment of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade.
nature in you stands on the very verge of his confine .
give me your hands, if we be friends, and robin shall restore amends.
is it e'en so ?
she swoons to see them bleed .
when these mutualities so marshal the way ,  hard at hand comes the master and main exercise ,  the incorporate conclusion .
let me tell you ,  cassius ,  you yourself are much condemned to have an itching palm ,  to sell and mart your offices for gold to undeservers .
so indeed he did .
nor i in yours till i again see mine .
you praise yourself by laying defects of judgment to me ,  but you patched up your excuses .
why dost thou stay ?
what it should be ,  more than his father’s death ,  that thus hath put him so much from th' understanding of himself ,  i cannot dream of .
give me my long sword ,  ho !
o ,  he's the courageous captain of compliments .
i have heard him read many lectures against it ,  and i thank god i am not a woman ,  to be touched with so many giddy offenses as he hath generally taxed their whole sex withal .
make good room .
and bad'st me bury love .
but why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
for my uncle is king of denmark ,  and those that would make mouths at him while my father lived give twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little .
do you hear?
good night .
and what to ?
i say she shall . —and first begin with her .
if thou dost love fair hero ,  cherish it ,  and i will break with her and with her father ,  and thou shalt have her .
i pause for a reply .
i'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
this it is: 'tis better that the enemy seek us .
have mercy ,  jesu ! —soft ,  i did but dream .
you say well .
do i so?
they are free men ,  but i am banishèd .
i will die bravely ,  like a smug bridegroom .
why should you fall into so deep an o ?
if he be sad ,  he wants money .
my countryman: but yet i know him not.
no more moving ?
then ,  tell me ,  who's the next heir of naples ?
and turns the sun to shade .
nor is he dead ,  for aught that i can tell .
if they deny to come ,  swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands .
but look, the morn, in russet mantle clad, walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
tis much he dares, and, to that dauntless temper of his mind, he hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor to act in safety.
that is because the traitor murderer lives .
master ,  i am here entered in bond for you .
about it ,  and write  “ happy ”  when thou’st done .
he is a dreamer; let us leave him .
my mother had a maid call'd barbara; she was in love, and he she loved proved mad and did forsake her.
there came divers of antonio's creditors in my company to venice ,  that swear he cannot choose but break .
good friends ,  go in and taste some wine with me .
who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves ”  !
how is it else the  “ man i' th' moon ”  ?
when the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew ,  but for the sunset of my brother's son it rains downright .
for you ,  mistress ,  save you your labor .
orlando doth commend him to you both ,  and to that youth he calls his rosalind he sends this bloody napkin .
give him heedful note .
who was last with them ?
nay ,  good sir toby .
how do you now ,  lieutenant ?
foolish wench ,  to th' most of men this is a caliban and they to him are angels .
with lysander ?
hail to thee ,  lady ,  and the grace of heaven ,  before ,  behind thee ,  and on every hand ,  enwheel thee round !
god ,  god ,  forgive us all !
what was ’t that moved pale cassius to conspire ?
flower of this purple dye ,  hit with cupid's archery ,  sink in apple of his eye .
i would thou couldst !
ancient damnation !
will you give her o'er ?
your son and daughter found this trespass worth the shame which here it suffers .
a thousand times the worse to want thy light .
speak not ,  reply not ,  do not answer me !
here’s a change indeed !
if we grow all to be pork - eaters ,  we shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money .
the lord grandpré .
the ambassadors from norway, my good lord, are joyfully return'd.
tis he .
when prospero is destroyed.
what doth this mean ,  my lord ?
let me see her .
you sent me to the bay ,  sir ,  for a bark .
we the globe can compass soon ,  swifter than the wandering moon .
i speak no treason.
come on.
this is a man—old ,  wrinkled ,  faded ,  withered— and not a maiden ,  as thou say’st he is .
how then ?
now, good metellus, go along by him.
what ,  has his daughters brought him to this pass ? — couldst thou save nothing ?
ay ,  you have been a mouse - hunt in your time; but i will watch you from such watching now .
it is very meet ,  the lord bassanio live an upright life; for ,  having such a blessing in his lady ,  he finds the joys of heaven here on earth; and ,  if on earth he do not mean it ,  then in reason he should never come to heaven .
witness the hole you made in caesar's heart, crying “long live!
welcome ,  dear madam .
my leg is cut in two .
here comes the little villain .
where is the county's page that rais'd the watch ?
know’st thou his mind ?
my good friends ,  hark !
out of her favour ,  where i am in love .
i do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity i find in hardness; and do undertake these present wars against the ottomites.
i speak in understanding .
why, i will fight with him upon this theme until my eyelids will no longer wag.
an the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing pyramus ,  i’ll be hanged .
he came with flowers to strew his lady's grave; and bid me stand aloof, and so i did.
to adrian] how lush and how green!
here’s one comes in his shirt ,  with light and weapons .
ay ,  so he says .
shame come to romeo !
seek thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without her .
hag - seed ,  hence !
thou shalt be lord of it and i’ll serve thee .
i shall win at the odds .
thou art a fellow of a good respect; thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it.
what say you?
now ,  sir ,  be judge yourself whether i in any just term am affined to love the moor .
a drum, a drum!
who, in this kind of merry fooling, am nothing to you; so you may continue and laugh at nothing still.
what though he love your hermia?
i say, my daughter is my flesh and blood.
what ,  wilt thou hear some music ,  my sweet love ?
he lies tonight within seven leagues of rome .
gentlemen ,  forward to the bridal dinner .
i am no strumpet, but of life as honest as you that thus abuse me.
lord ,  ”  quoth he ?
marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
any man that can write may answer a letter .
my wits faints .
we will haste us .
madam!
i said, an elder soldier, not a better.
write from us to him ,  postposthaste dispatch .
this is her very guise ,  and ,  upon my life ,  fast asleep .
master ,  knock the door hard .
i am hers.
comes his army on?
farewell ,  kind charmian .
the king my father ?  !
what would she have?
mad as the sea and wind when both contend which is the mightier .
more knocking: get on your nightgown ,  lest occasion call us and show us to be watchers .
what bloody man is that ?
to vouch this ,  is no proof ,  without more certain and more overt test than these thin habits and poor likelihoods of modern seeming do prefer against him .
because that i familiarly sometimes do use you for my fool and chat with you ,  your sauciness will jest upon my love and make a common of my serious hours .
for shame ,  bring juliet forth; her lord is come .
how purposed ,  sir ,  i pray you ?
pray you, be round with him.
anon .
come, sit down, every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
and liegemen to the dane.
true; and a goose for his discretion .
let me speak like yourself and lay a sentence which ,  as a grise or step ,  may help these lovers .
confusion’s cure lives not in these confusions .
and did not they put on my brows this wreath of victory and bid me give it thee ?
thy clarence he is dead that stabbed my edward ,  and the beholders of this frantic play ,  th' adulterate hastings ,  rivers ,  vaughan ,  grey ,  untimely smothered in their dusky graves .
when i came back— for this was brief —i found them close together, at blow and thrust, even as again they were when you yourself did part them.
if a jew wrong a christian ,  what is his humility ?
i prithee do not mock me ,  fellow student .
life's but a walking shadow ,  a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more .
tis too bad ,  too bad .
who is't you mean ?
let it alone .
the duke’s in council and your noble self ,  i am sure ,  is sent for .
my lord and master loves you .
scarcity and want shall shun you, ceres’ blessing so is on you.
here is my bed .
thou marvell'st at my words ,  but hold thee still: things bad begun make strong themselves by ill .
then all alone at the prefixed hour of her waking came i to take her from her kindred's vault; meaning to keep her closely at my cell till i conveniently could send to romeo .
nay ,  then ,  thus: we came into the world like brother and brother ,  and now let’s go hand in hand ,  not one before another .
but ,  howsoever thou pursuest this act ,  taint not thy mind ,  nor let thy soul contrive against thy mother aught .
it is written that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last ,  the fisher with his pencil ,  and the painter with his nets; but i am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ ,  and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ .
when they do choose ,  they have the wisdom by their wit to lose .
you might do much .
good signior angelo ,  you must excuse us all; my wife is shrewish when i keep not hours .
our royal master's murdered .
oh ho ,  oh ho !
bring in my lord.
therefore ,  most gracious duke ,  with thy command let him be brought forth and borne hence for help .
alas ,  thou hast misconstrued everything !
what says the golden chest?
time calls upon ’s .
a dollar .
what is his name ?
upon my power ,  i may dismiss this court ,  unless bellario ,  a learned doctor ,  whom i have sent for to determine this ,  come here to - day .
no place will please me so ,  no mean of death ,  as here by caesar ,  and by you cut off ,  the choice and master spirits of this age .
he will, an if he live to be a man.
my lord ,  i do not know ,  but truly i do fear it .
now ,  then ,  we’ll use his countenance for the battle ,  which being done ,  let her who would be rid of him devise his speedy taking off .
you take your pennyworths now !
i’ll leave thee now like a man of steel .
tis well you offer it behind her back .
i was about to protest i loved you .
then ’tis like the breath of an unfee’d lawyer .
come, my dear love, the purchase made, the fruits are to ensue; that profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
is it not as this mouth should tear this hand for lifting food to ’t ?
ebbing men indeed most often do so near the bottom run by their own fear or sloth .
give them the foils ,  young osric .
if much you note him ,  you shall offend him and extend his passion .
shall we to the court?
and ,  my gracious duke ,  be it so she will not here before your grace consent to marry with demetrius ,  i beg the ancient privilege of athens: as she is mine ,  i may dispose of her; which shall be either to this gentleman or to her death ,  according to our law immediately provided in that case .
tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
never was seen so black a day as this.
i’ll do ’t .
fair sir ,  and you ,  my merry mistress ,  that with your strange encounter much amazed me ,  my name is called vincentio ,  my dwelling pisa ,  and bound i am to padua ,  there to visit a son of mine which long i have not seen .
his discretion, i am sure, cannot carry his valour; for the goose carries not the fox.
best safety lies in fear .
o wise young judge ,  how i do honour thee !
stand!
it was about to speak ,  when the cock crew .
whither are they vanish'd ?
oh ,  a thousand thousand times—and then of so gentle a condition !
she is indeed perfection .
i'll go no further.
he that will think to live till he be old ,  give me some help !
why dost thou wring thy hands?
i take it much unkindly that thou ,  iago ,  who hast had my purse as if the strings were thine ,  shouldst know of this .
sirrah, a word with you.
the lunatic, the lover, and the poet, are of imagination all compact.
the last of all the romans ,  fare thee well !
i thank you for your pains and courtesy .
i will survey th' inscriptions back again .
do not for ever with thy vailed lids seek for thy noble father in the dust .
their battles are at hand; they mean to warn us at philippi here, answering before we do demand of them.
which else were shame ,  that then necessity will call discreet proceeding .
vexed i am of late with passions of some difference, conceptions only proper to myself, which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors; but let not therefore my good friends be grieved— among which number, cassius, be you one— nor construe any further my neglect than that poor brutus with himself at war forgets the shows of love to other men.
let me go in to see the generals.
nay ,  i shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till i break my shins against it .
there is none of my uncle’s marks upon you .
what ,  is the fellow mad ?
as from your graves rise up ,  and walk like sprites ,  to countenance this horror !
approach the chamber, and destroy your sight with a new gorgon.
hers you are .
all is not well .
then by your side no bed - room me deny ,  for lying so ,  hermia ,  i do not lie .
do not learn of him ,  emilia ,  though he be thy husband .
not to be endured .
not where he eats, but where he is eaten.
hark ,  she speaks !
what sights ,  my lord ?
madam ,  he’s well .
follow me then .
take thee that too.
you peasant swain !
something sure of state, either from venice or some unhatch'd practice made demonstrable here in cyprus to him, hath puddled his clear spirit; and in such cases men's natures wrangle with inferior things, though great ones are their object.
o villainous!
well, my lord.
a common slave—you know him well by sight— held up his left hand ,  which did flame and burn like twenty torches join'd ,  and yet his hand ,  not sensible of fire ,  remain'd unscorch'd .
report is changeable .
it seems not meet ,  nor wholesome to my place ,  to be producted (as ,  if i stay ,  i shall) against the moor .
it waves me forth again.
i do ,  with all my heart; and yet no man like he doth grieve my heart .
strumpet, i come!
most heathenish and most gross !
i cannot blame thee now to weep ,  for such an injury would vex a very saint ,  much more a shrew of thy impatient humor .
how is't, laertes?
the king's a - bed .
why, if two gods should play some heavenly match, and on the wager lay two earthly women, and portia one, there must be something else pawn'd with the other; for the poor rude world hath not her fellow.
will you play upon this pipe ?
the greatest note of it is his melancholy .
hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge, it could not move thus.
sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
after the battle let george stanley die .
i am qualmish at the smell of leek .
madam ,  o good empress !
faith, her privates we.
good hamlet ,  cast thy nighted color off ,  and let thine eye look like a friend on denmark .
twas a color he never liked .
give me the ocular proof; or ,  by the worth of man's eternal soul ,  thou hadst been better have been born a dog than answer my waked wrath !
i hold you but a subject of this war ,  not as a brother .
a wretched soul ,  bruised with adversity we bid be quiet when we hear it cry ,  but were we burdened with like weight of pain ,  as much or more we should ourselves complain .
wolvish - ravening lamb !
say ,  what ?
peace there!
i humbly thank you .
thou shalt know more hereafter: nay, get thee gone.
come, sir, dispatch.
or be alive again, and dare me to the desert with thy sword.
i had rather be married to a death’s - head with a bone in his mouth than to either of these .
i love not to see wretchedness o'er-charged, and duty in his service perishing.
signor bassanio !
let us toward the king .
let’s see .
why ,  what a king is this !
the dropsy drown this fool !
cicero one ?
i confess it is my shame to be so fond ,  but it is not in my virtue to amend it .
no ,  lepidus ,  let him speak .
o my follies !
tis not to make me jealous to say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company, is free of speech, sings, plays, and dances well; where virtue is, these are more virtuous.
prithee, keep up thy quillets.
good sir, this ring was given me by my wife; and, when she put it on, she made me vow that i should neither sell, nor give, nor lose it.
and, which is worse, all you have done hath been but for a wayward son, spiteful and wrathful: who, as others do, loves for his own ends, not for you.
o ,  you are novices !
here comes lorenzo;—more of this hereafter.
it is too late .
the visitor will not give him o'er so .
go ,  leave me .
some bloody passion shakes your very frame .
therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues .
no ,  thou proud dream ,  that play’st so subtly with a king’s repose .
i must be idle .
you shall find me apt enough to that ,  sir ,  an you will give me occasion .
dost thou like the plot, trinculo?
by and by .
they will surely do us no harm .
what, ho!
o ,  he is mad ,  laertes .
a good wench ,  give it me .
cousins, i hope the days are near at hand that chambers will be safe.
do not presume too much upon my love; i may do that i shall be sorry for .
mutinies ,  in countries discord ,  in palaces treason ,  and the bond cracked ’twixt son and father .
wednesday is to - morrow .
call you this railing ?
let’s follow the old earl ,  and get the bedlam to lead him where he would .
and too soon marr'd are those so early made .
the king doth keep his revels here tonight; take heed the queen come not within his sight; for oberon is passing fell and wrath, because that she as her attendant hath a lovely boy, stolen from an indian king.
to the mariners] play the men !
sola ,  sola !
this is no answer ,  thou unfeeling man ,  to excuse the current of thy cruelty .
god and his angels guard your sacred throne and make you long become it .
saint francis be my speed!
thou hast mistaken quite ,  and laid the love - juice on some true - love's sight .
you know ,  sometimes he walks four hours together here in the lobby .
what devil art thou that dost torment me thus ?
pray you ,  sir ,  do you know of this matter ?
have the pioneers given o'er ?
news, lads!
service .
then ’tis most like the sovereignty will fall upon macbeth.
ay ,  and wall too .
from my house ,  if i had it— the sixth of july .
i charge thee ,  tempt me not .
what rhubarb ,  senna ,  or what purgative drug would scour these english hence ?
methinks she should not use a long one for such a pyramus .
lives my sweet son ?
o cassius ,  if you could but win the noble brutus to our party— be you content .
what villain touched his body ,  that did stab ,  and not for justice ?
o ,  if you but knew how you the purpose cherish whiles thus you mock it; how in stripping it .
o ,  she would laugh me out of myself ,  press me to death with wit .
in him there is a hope of government ,  which ,  in his nonage ,  council under him ,  and ,  in his full and ripened years ,  himself ,  no doubt shall then ,  and till then ,  govern well .
say that the last i spoke was  “ antony ,  ”  and word it ,  prithee ,  piteously .
o ,  my fear interprets !
but look to it: find out thy brother ,  wheresoe'er he is .
sent he to macduff ?
high and mighty, you shall know i am set naked on your kingdom.
come on .
no ,  none by me .
never alone did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
what less than doomsday is the prince's doom ?
aha !
thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince ,  taking thy part ,  hath rush'd aside the law ,  and turn'd that black word death to banishment .
let your highness command upon me, to the which my duties are with a most indissoluble tie forever knit.
shall we sound him ?
go off ,  i discard you .
nay ,  good my lord ,  this courtesy is not of the right breed .
content you ,  gentlemen .
liberty !
i must leave you .
swear.
well ,  go thy way .
lysander's love ,  that would not let him bide ,  fair helena ,  who more engilds the night than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light .
the moon methinks looks with a watery eye .
wilt thou change fathers ?
what's to do?
tis pitiful ,  but yet iago knows that she with cassio hath the act of shame a thousand times committed .
our day is gone; clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done!
i prithee ,  bear some charity to my wit; do not think it so unwholesome .
if your messenger find him not there, seek him i' the other place yourself.
oh ,  that i served that lady and might not be delivered to the world ,  till i had made mine own occasion mellow ,  what my estate is .
have after.
and speak parrot?
nurse ,  where’s my daughter ?
and till she come ,  as truly as to heaven i do confess the vices of my blood ,  so justly to your grave ears i'll present how i did thrive in this fair lady's love and she in mine .
well demanded ,  wench; my tale provokes that question .
hang not on my garments.
as good a gentleman as the emperor .
go after .
tis good .
all of us have cause to wail the dimming of our shining star ,  but none can help our harms by wailing them . — madam ,  my mother ,  i do cry you mercy; i did not see your grace .
go fetch fire .
thou stickest a dagger in me .
why, what did i?
why ,  what should be the fear ?
then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste ?
for this relief much thanks .
what's here?
what are you ?
i am to blame to be thus waited for .
saints do not move ,  though grant for prayers' sake .
my hair doth stand an end to hear her curses .
why seek'st thou me ?
the earth sings when he touches it .
bid them achieve me and then sell my bones .
if it be man’s work ,  i’ll do ’t .
had i your tongues and eyes ,  i’d use them so that heaven’s vault should crack .
put on what weary negligence you please ,  you and your fellow servants .
your looks are pale and wild and do import some misadventure .
why ,  thou say’st true .
was that done like cassius ?
therefore know i have earned of don john a thousand ducats .
i will have none on't.
never, my lord.
truly ,  sir ,  to wear out their shoes to get myself into more work .
yet hear me ,  countrymen .
why do you stay so long ,  my lords of france ?
i pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen, let her not hurt me.
sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet nurse ,  tell me ,  what says my love ?
farewell ,  dear father .
therefore speak softly .
start, eyes!
but where was this ?
if he love caesar ,  all that he can do is to himself: take thought and die for caesar .
but thus ,  i trust ,  you will not marry her .
i am your own forever.
write them together, yours is as fair a name; sound them, it doth become the mouth as well; weigh them, it is as heavy; conjure with 'em, brutus will start a spirit as soon as caesar.
about the ninth hour, lady.
sweet soul, take heed, take heed of perjury; thou are on thy deathbed.
o thou foul thief ,  where hast thou stowed my daughter ?
away !
this is some token from a newer friend .
yea ,  and paid me richly for the practice of it .
i do obey thee till i give thee bail .
the law allows it ,  and the court awards it .
is it a world to hide virtues in ?
he started one poor heart of mine in thee .
the will!
does any here know me ?
this is my daughter's jointure, for no more can i demand.
why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly ?
this rudeness is a sauce to his good wit, which gives men stomach to digest his words with better appetite.
fortune ,  that arrant whore ,   ne'er turns the key to th' poor .
i’ faith, i am sorry that thou art not well.
why ,  he has three thousand ducats a year .
if either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be conjoined ,  charge you on your souls to utter it .
and did not they put on my brows this wreath of victory ,  and bid me give it thee ?
what ?
now, the next day was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent thou know'st already.
the four strangers seek for you, madam, to take their leave: and there is a forerunner come from a fifth, the prince of morocco; who brings word, the prince, his master, will be here to-night.
send thither to see .
this tempest will not give me leave to ponder on things would hurt me more .
durst thou have look'd upon him being awake, and hast thou kill'd him sleeping?
he knows not yet of his honorable fortune .
what said he?
amen .
we should have else desired your good advice— which still hath been both grave and prosperous— in this day’s council ,  but we’ll take tomorrow .
well ,  i would you did like me .
i'll be with thee straight.
what part is that, my lord?
wast thou with rosaline?
nor i .
i would scarce trust myself ,  though i had sworn the contrary ,  if hero would be my wife .
this [aside] why speaks my father so urgently ?
and so he fell .
think you to walk forth ?
i will kiss thy lips .
tranio ,  i saw her coral lips to move and with her breath she did perfume the air .
forgive me my foul murder?
speed him hence .
why should titania cross her oberon?
let us see .
let 'em enter .
where’s the cook ?
and will he not come again?
but if thou ,  jealous ,  dost return to pry in what i further shall intend to do ,  by heaven ,  i will tear thee joint by joint and strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs .
seem they religious ?
alack ,  what trouble was i then to you !
is it good e'en ?
kent ,  sir ,  the banished kent ,  who in disguise followed his enemy king and did him service improper for a slave .
look where they come .
i am not cinna the conspirator .
not that i know .
aside.
maintain a mourning ostentation ,  and on your family’s old monument hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites that appertain unto a burial .
care keeps his watch in every old man’s eye ,  and where care lodges ,  sleep will never lie .
what a thrice-double ass was i to take this drunkard for a god, and worship this dull fool!
and art thou living ,  stephano ?
wife!
we doubt it nothing.
tybalt would kill thee ,  but thou slewest tybalt .
what i have done that might your nature ,  honour ,  and exception roughly awake ,  i here proclaim was madness .
i warrant you ,  sir ,  the white cold virgin snow upon my heart abates the ardor of my liver .
wilt thou ,  strato ?
do you amend it ,  then; it lies in you .
you shortly shall hear more .
i assure my good liege ,  i hold my duty as i hold my soul ,  both to my god and to my gracious king .
out ,  and alas !
why dost thou lead these men about the streets?
he says for brutus' sake he finds himself beholding to us all .
for as thou urgest justice ,  be assured thou shalt have justice more than thou desirest .
our instruments to melancholy bells ,  our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast .
well moused ,  lion !
be the players ready .
i give them with this ring ,  which when you part from ,  lose ,  or give away ,  let it presage the ruin of your love
shall ’t be tonight at supper ?
romeo ,  away ,  be gone !
as a friend or an enemy ?
these wise men that give fools money get themselves a good report—after fourteen years' purchase .
was not that cassio parted from my wife ?
it is your music ,  madam ,  of the house .
no ,  believe me ,  'tis very cold; the wind is northerly .
this tune goes manly.
thou art the ruins of the noblest man that ever livèd in the tide of times .
i'll warrant him for drowning, though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unstanched wench.
farewell ,  my coz .
gertrude, do not drink.
o, i am slain!
o day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
no doubt ,  my liege ,  if each man do his best .
we have lost best half of our affair .
world ,  world ,  o world !
let me tell you, cassius, you yourself are much condemn'd to have an itching palm, to sell and mart your offices for gold to undeservers.
goes the king hence today?
i know they are in rome together looking for antony .
god has given you one face and you make yourselves another .
be gone !
is ’t long or round ?
boundless intemperance in nature is a tyranny .
you know i gave it you half an hour since .
no ,  not he ,  though his face be better than any man’s ,  yet his leg excels all men’s ,  and for a hand and a foot and a body ,  though they be not to be talked on ,  yet they are past compare .
twas a rough night.
noses ,  ears ,  and lips .
news ,  old news ,  and such news as you never heard of !
how do you ,  madam ?
i am he .
i am sorry for thee .
i blame you not for praising caesar so; but what compact mean you to have with us?
out of her favour, where i am in love.
but ’tis not so .
wherefore is that ?
not so, my lord.
do you speak in the sick tune ?
jove’s lightning ,  the precursors o' th' dreadful thunderclaps ,  more momentary and sight - outrunning were not .
if this be so ,  why blame you me to love you ?
so frowned he once when ,  in an angry parle ,  he smote the sledded polacks on the ice .
why no ,  boy .
or are you aught that man may question ?
mine would, sir, were i human.
hold then my sword, and turn away thy face, while i do run upon it.
if it be found so ,  some will dear abide it .
who would fardels bear, to grunt and sweat under a weary life, but that the dread of something after death the undiscover'd country, from whose bourn no traveller returns, puzzles the will, and makes us rather bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not of?
good heart ,  at what ?
we must both give and take ,  my loving lord .
far more ,  far more ,  to you do i decline .
let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.
as ignorant as dirt !
why ,  fool ?
you have heard much .
you are welcome .
each new morn new widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows strike heaven on the face, that it resounds as if it felt with scotland and yell'd out like syllable of dolor.
let us quit all and give our vineyards to a barbarous people .
why ,  man ,  what is the matter ?
well met ,  well met ,  master antipholus .
then i would you were so honest a man .
i’ll have no bigger .
what speech ,  my good lord ?
methought their souls whose bodies richard murdered came to my tent and cried on victory .
my father—methinks i see my father .
what impossible matter will he make easy next?
to bed ?
if they have done this deed ,  my noble lord— if ?
shake off this downy sleep ,  death’s counterfeit ,  and look on death itself !
this was sometime a paradox ,  but now the time gives it proof .
i do not set my life in a pin’s fee ,  and for my soul—what can it do to that ,  being a thing immortal as itself ?
and that were much he should ,  for he is given to sports ,  to wildness ,  and much company .
come ,  temperate nymphs ,  and help to celebrate a contract of true love .
and wilt thou have me ?
i am ready .
once more ,  good night ,  kind lords and gentlemen .
this making christians will raise the price of hogs .
but for the whole world ?
ay ,  but not rough enough .
is it your own inclining ?
give me thy hand .
i cry you mercy ,  then ,  i took you for that cunning whore of venice that married with othello . —you ,  mistress ,  that have the office opposite to saint peter and keep the gate of hell !
go charge my goblins that they grind their joints with dry convulsions ,  shorten up their sinews with agèd cramps ,  and more pinch - spotted make them than pard or cat o' mountain .
nor i ,  my lord .
how say you now ?
here ,  under leave of brutus and the rest— for brutus is an honorable man; so are they all ,  all honorable men— come i to speak in caesar's funeral .
the heavens forbid but that our loves and comforts should increase ,  even as our days do grow !
what's to be done ?
here’s france and burgundy ,  my noble lord .
our dinner done and he not coming thither ,  i went to seek him .
i knew a wench married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit ,  and so may you ,  sir .
give me some wine and let me speak a little .
draw together ,  and when i rear my hand ,  do you the like ,  to fall it on gonzalo .
good night ,  honest iago .
no ,  i will be the pattern of all patience .
if thou delight to view thy heinous deeds ,  behold this pattern of thy butcheries .
i fear me both are false .
under your pardon .
marry ,  and it shall be done tomorrow morning if i live .
when it is paid ,  bring your true friend along .
your flashes of merriment ,  that were wont to set the table on a roar ?
no noise ,  and enter .
but what see i?
so can i .
thou speakest aright: i am that merry wanderer of the night.
confess ,  and love ,  had been the very sum of my confession: o happy torment ,  when my torturer doth teach me answers for deliverance !
what ,  octavia ?
marry ,  ’tis enough .
now ,  hamlet ,  where's polonius ?
under sir thomas erpingham .
i do beseech you ,  take it not amiss; i cannot ,  nor i will not ,  yield to you .
i’ll set a bourn how far to be beloved .
i did not think he had been acquainted with her .
we pray you throw to earth this unprevailing woe, and think of us as of a father; for let the world take note you are the most immediate to our throne, and with no less nobility of love than that which dearest father bears his son do i impart toward you.
no, my lord, i saw nothing.
i like not fair terms and a villain's mind .
how does my wife ?
this is the brief of money ,  plate ,  and jewels i am possessed of .
retire we to our chamber.
i would be loath to cast away my speech ,  for besides that it is excellently well penned ,  i have taken great pains to con it .
where should othello go?
he hath no friends but who are friends for fear .
katherine his daughter and with her ,  to dowry ,  some petty and unprofitable dukedoms .
they are loves i bear to you .
men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run as it were doomsday.
break not your sleeps for that .
your heart’s desires be with you .
no .
fetch thy master home .
farewell ,  sweet playfellow .
and i’ll still stay ,  to have thee still forget ,  forgetting any other home but this .
when the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew, but for the sunset of my brother's son it rains downright.
o ,  he was gentle ,  mild ,  and virtuous .
thou wretched ,  rash ,  intruding fool ,  farewell !
i dreamt a dream to - night .
i have known when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife ,  and now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe .
faith ,  her privates we .
we have not made good preparation.
freedom !
tyrant ,  show thy face !
not one now to mock your own grinning ?
how stand i then, that have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd, excitements of my reason and my blood, and let all sleep, while to my shame i see the imminent death of twenty thousand men that for a fantasy and trick of fame go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot whereon the numbers cannot try the cause, which is not tomb enough and continent to hide the slain?
what is the matter ?
you look wearily.
and yet to win her ,  all the world to nothing !
i know no news ,  my lord .
snout ,  the tinker !
then you are mad indeed ,  if you be no better in your wits than a fool .
the time is out of joint.
go to ,  carry this .
he looks gentler than he did.
touching this vision here ,  it is an honest ghost ,  that let me tell you .
i am very comptible ,  even to the least sinister usage .
here in these confines slyly have i lurked to watch the waning of mine enemies .
look how he makes to caesar .
he’s fortified against any denial .
say that i lingered with you at your shop to see the making of her carcanet ,  and that tomorrow you will bring it home .
i am but hurt .
have at thee ,  coward !
thanks ,  you the valiant of this warlike isle that so approve the moor .
come ,  come ,  wrestle with thy affections .
i know not ,  sir .
what had he done to you ?
our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage.
being entertained for a perfumer ,  as i was smoking a musty room ,  comes me the prince and claudio ,  hand in hand ,  in sad conference .
go with me to it ,  and i’ll show it you; and by the way you shall tell me where in the forest you live .
away with the joint-stools, remove the court-cupboard, look to the plate.
if he were dead ,  what would betide on me ?
whate'er thou art ,  for thy good caution ,  thanks; thou hast harp'd my fear aright .
even by the rule of that philosophy by which i did blame cato for the death which he did give himself: i know not how, but i do find it cowardly and vile, for fear of what might fall, so to prevent the time of life: arming myself with patience to stay the providence of some high powers that govern us below.
nor i, my lord.
when he stands where i am and sees you there .
welcome ,  good robin .
but montague is bound as well as i, in penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, i think, for men so old as we to keep the peace.
well ,  i am standing water .
i will tomorrow, and betimes i will, to the weird sisters.
where's peaseblossom ?
am i not stay'd for?
no, i assure you; the wall is down that parted their fathers.
faith, i intend so.
o ,  then it moved her ?
i pray thee ,  tell me then that he is well .
you thought because he could not speak english in the native garb ,  he could not therefore handle an english cudgel .
my most dear lord!
we see how mortal an unkindness is to them .
hie you to church; i must another way, to fetch a ladder, by the which your love must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark.
those uncles which you want were dangerous .
shall i do such a deed?
how doth the lady ?
hark ye, your romeo will be here at night.
o thou pernicious caitiff !
i tell you ,  ’tis incredible to believe how much she loves me .
farewell ,  my lord .
where shall we go?
strike !
what are you?
let it go all .
come .
you see me ,  lord bassanio ,  where i stand such as i am .
he may win; and what is music then?
you shall not go ,  my lord .
you have not been abed, then?
show!
to alonso] had i plantation of this isle, my lord,— [to alonso] had i [to sebastian] he'd sow't with nettle-seed.
poor tom’s a - cold .
you need not fear ,  lady ,  the having any of these lords: they have acquainted me with their determinations: which is ,  indeed ,  to return to their home ,  and to trouble you with no more suit; unless you may be won by some other sort than your father's imposition ,  depending on the caskets .
or be alive again ,  and dare me to the desert with thy sword .
it is brabantio .
your wife, my lord, your true and loyal wife.
since his majesty went into the field, i have seen her rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep.
hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes .
i did not give the lie .
our fathers' minds are dead, and we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits; our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
you are a fool; go to .
thou art a villain .
how say you, cassio?
soft ,  no haste .
for if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog ,  being a good kissing carrion— have you a daughter ?
silver!
not a false gallop .
if thou wilt lend this money ,  lend it not as to thy friends ,  for when did friendship take a breed for barren metal of his friend ?
why do you dress me in borrow'd robes ?
meantime forbear ,  and let mischance be slave to patience .
i humbly thank you, sir.
is romeo slaught'red ,  and is tybalt dead ?
you spend your passion on a misprised mood: i am not guilty of lysander's blood; nor is he dead, for aught that i can tell.
nay, good, be patient.
this cannot anger him.
at my lodging .
come now ,  keep thine oath; now be a freeman ,  and with this good sword ,  that ran through caesar's bowels ,  search this bosom .
brutus speaks.
i learned it in england ,  where indeed they are most potent in potting .
and all my children ?
here will we sit ,  and let the sounds of music creep in our ears; soft stillness ,  and the night ,  become the touches of sweet harmony .
sweet lady ,  you have given me life and living .
my lord ,  i would that thursday were tomorrow .
answer every man directly .
in the secret parts of fortune ?
who is't that hinders you ?
fetch desdemona hither .
my words are dull .
you look angerly.
what ,  in our house ?
a privilege never to see me more .
she swoons to see them bleed .
what was he that you followed with your sword ?
be the players ready.
o day !
hast thou found my daughter ?
alas the day ,  it did .
ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands.
now a little fire in a wild field were like an old lecher’s heart—a small spark ,  all the rest on ’s body cold .
sweetly in force unto her fair life’s end .
here’s a madman will murder me .
what black magician conjures up this fiend to stop devoted charitable deeds ?
so ’tis to thee .
where are the vile beginners of this fray ?
dido and her aeneas shall want troops ,  and all the haunt be ours . —come ,  eros ,  eros !
yea, noise?
if haply you my father do suspect an instrument of this your calling back ,  lay not your blame on me .
it ish give over .
how chance thou art returned so soon ?
ha, ha, ha!
how goes the night ,  boy ?
what have i kept back ?
he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
if e'er the jew her father come to heaven, it will be for his gentle daughter's sake: and never dare misfortune cross her foot, unless she do it under this excuse,— that she is issue to a faithless jew.
and when i love thee not ,  chaos is come again .
have you come by night, and stolen my love's heart from him?
go you ,  call hither my fool .
o, for a chair, to bear him easily hence!
o woful time!
alas, he faints!
what of that ?
well ,  let him go .
art thou some god, some angel, or some devil that makest my blood cold, and my hair to stare?
i shall do my friends no wrong ,  for i have none to lament me; the world no injury ,  for in it i have nothing .
at once ,  good night: stand not upon the order of your going ,  but go at once .
sir ,  grieve not you; you are welcome notwithstanding .
i would out-night you, did no body come; but, hark, i hear the footing of a man.
i have myself resolved upon a course which has no need of you .
my mistress showed me thee and thy dog and thy bush .
lorenzo certain ,  and my love indeed— for who love i so much ?
almost at odds with morning, which is which.
i am not i ,  if there be such an ‘i’; or those eyes shut that make thee answer ‘i . ’ if he be slain ,  say ‘i’; or if not ,  ‘no . ’ brief sounds determine of my weal or woe .
he hath an uncle here in messina will be very much glad of it .
you spoke not with her since ?
to sebastian] ay ,  and a subtle ,  as he most learnedly delivered .
where is my romeo ?
as waggish boys in game themselves forswear, so the boy love is perjured everywhere; for ere demetrius look'd on hermia's eyne, he hail'd down oaths that he was only mine; and when this hail some heat from hermia felt, so he dissolv'd, and showers of oaths did melt.
i'ld have thee live ,  for ,  in my sense ,  'tis happiness to die .
sister ,  content you in my discontent . — sir ,  to your pleasure humbly i subscribe .
and do you now strew flowers in his way that comes in triumph over pompey’s blood ?
o ,  teach me how i should forget to think !
what will i do ,  think’st thou ?
i fear there will a worse come in his place.
lovers ,  make moan .
come what come may ,  [aside .
it struck mine ear most terribly.
i can tell you; but young romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him.
foul deeds will rise ,  though all the earth o'erwhelm them ,  to men’s eyes .
sweet bodements !
the king of naples ,  being an enemy to me inveterate ,  hearkens my brother's suit; which was that he ,  in lieu o'th’ premises of homage and i know not how much tribute ,  should presently extirpate me and mine out of the dukedom ,  and confer fair milan ,  with all the honours ,  on my brother; whereon ,  a treacherous army levied ,  one midnight fated to th’ purpose did antonio open the gates of milan ,  and ,  i'th’ dead of darkness ,  the ministers for th’ purpose hurried thence me and thy crying self .
and your horse now would make him an ass .
i have a ship laden with gold .
sir ,  know you this glove ?
here is a sick man that would speak with you.
tell me, laertes, why thou art thus incensed.
now i am alone .
sing me now asleep; then to your offices ,  and let me rest .
go, get some water and wash this filthy witness from your hand.
is't not enough ,  is't not enough ,  young man ,  that i did never ,  no ,  nor never can ,  deserve a sweet look from demetrius' eye ,  but you must flout my insufficiency ?
thy case, dear friend, shall be my precedent: as thou got'st milan, i'll come by naples.
i can live no longer by thinking .
a thing for me ?
which of these sorrows is he subject to ?
we are friends .
hazard for lead?
i doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve for sweet discourses in our time to come .
fly further off ,  my lord ,  fly further off .
my reputation ,  iago ,  my reputation !
he that is robbed ,  not wanting what is stol'n ,  let him not know’t ,  and he’s not robbed at all .
tom’s a - cold .
you understand me ?
oh ,  my heart bleeds to think o' th' teen that i have turned you to ,  which is from my remembrance !
for that goes hard .
welcome, mistress.
welcome ,  ass .
call claudius and some other of my men ,  i'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent .
hence !
mark me .
blow me about in winds!
for god’s sake ,  take a house .
who knows not that ?
o, a cherubin thou wast that did preserve me.
sir ,  in my heart there was a kind of fighting that would not let me sleep .
and you all know security is mortals’ chiefest enemy .
well too.
o, now you weep, and i perceive you feel the dint of pity.
good portia ,  go to bed .
whither are you going ?
o valiant cousin !
by heaven ,  you do me wrong .
the king is coming .
hence ,  away !
i think he only loves the world for him.
fair lovers ,  you are fortunately met .
what does this mean ,  my lord ?
let rome be thus informed .
methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
this business is well ended .
look you ,  the worm is not to be trusted but in the keeping of wise people ,  for indeed there is no goodness in the worm .
o heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold, and put in every honest hand a whip to lash the rascals naked through the world even from the east to the west!
i mean ,  the lord protector .
valiant othello, we must straight employ you against the general enemy ottoman.
haste me to know't ,  that i ,  with wings as swift as meditation or the thoughts of love ,  may sweep to my revenge .
the lady beatrice hath a quarrel to you .
the instances that second marriage move are base respects of thrift ,  but none of love .
that may be, sir, when i may be a wife.
sir ,  i do know you ,  and dare upon the warrant of my note commend a dear thing to you .
this is the fool that lent out money gratis .
yet i should kill thee with much cherishing.
i prithee ,  who doth he trot withal ?
and shall ,  or some of us will smart for it .
i set him there ,  sir ,  but his own disorders deserved much less advancement .
come hither ,  fabian .
you taught me first to beg ,  and now methinks you teach me how a beggar should be answered .
to be thus is nothing ,  but to be safely thus .
alas ,  how shall this bloody deed be answered ?
what dost thou say?
that of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker; each minute teems a new one.
utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl ,  for here we need it not .
have we devils here ?
why ,  this is not a boon ,  'tis as i should entreat you wear your gloves ,  or feed on nourishing dishes ,  or keep you warm ,  or sue to you to do a peculiar profit to your own person .
good my lord ,  bid him welcome .
just ,  just; and the men do sympathize with the mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on ,  leaving their wits with their wives .
welcome ,  my good alexas .
what are you ?
i' faith, if he be not rotten before he die—as we have many pocky corses nowadays that will scarce hold the laying in—he will last you some eight year or nine year.
she desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed .
ay ,  i thank god ,  my father ,  and yourself .
well ,  what is it ?
thou art not by mine eye ,  lysander ,  found .
gratiano, keep the house, and seize upon the fortunes of the moor, for they succeed on you.
why ,  why is this ?
hath romeo slain himself?
the ocean ,  overpeering of his list ,  eats not the flats with more impetuous haste than young laertes ,  in a riotous head ,  o'erbears your offices .
whither away ?
what is yon gentleman ?
who is ’t that can inform me ?
good night, good night.
by this ,  i think ,  the dial points at five .
nay ,  never lay thy hand upon thy sword .
what will you give me now for the same handkerchief ?
if you’ll sit down ,  i’ll bear your logs the while .
caliban drinks] amen !
a seventh!
stay ,  give me drink . —hamlet ,  this pearl is thine .
i ,  gentle mistress .
fly, masters!
aside.
orsino ,  this is that antonio that took the  and this is he that did the  when your young nephew titus lost his leg .
never make known what you have seen to - night .
the noblest deer hath them as huge as the rascal .
haply some poison yet doth hang on them to make me die with a restorative.
i stand dishonored ,  that have gone about to link my dear friend to a common stale .
ay ,  so i think .
list a brief tale ,  and when ’tis told ,  oh ,  that my heart would burst !
we'll have a speech straight.
he is address'd; press near and second him .
how noble in reason !
consider then we come but in despite .
is it his use?
the queen approaches .
then must the jew be merciful .
hence ,  and stand aloof .
let them be well used; for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time.
stop that ,  ’twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney .
this was the most unkindest cut of all; for when the noble caesar saw him stab, ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms, quite vanquish'd him.
thereby shall we shadow the numbers of our host and make discovery err in report of us .
o ,  most wicked speed ,  to post with such dexterity to incestuous sheets !
oh ,  strange !
we found him in the churchyard .
o villain !
by what ?
soft ,  soft !
for edward ,  for my brother ,  for his sake .
egypt ,  thou knew’st too well my heart was to thy rudder tied by th’ strings ,  and thou shouldst tow me after .
is't possible?
aunchient pistol ,  i do partly understand your meaning .
speak it again and ,  even with the word ,  this hand ,  which for thy love did kill thy love ,  shall for thy love kill a far truer love .
commend me to him and tell him i will not fail him at supper ,  for indeed he hath made great preparation .
and in the morn i’ll bring you to your ship and so to naples ,  where i have hope to see the nuptial of these our dear - belovèd solemnized ,  and thence retire me to my milan ,  where every third thought shall be my grave .
give me that boy and i will go with thee .
ay, lady, it was my word.
she is too fair ,  too wise ,  wisely too fair ,  to merit bliss by making me despair .
my life were better ended by their hate than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
follow your spirit ,  and upon this charge cry  “ god for harry ,  england ,  and saint george !  ”
this tyrant ,  whose sole name blisters our tongues ,  was once thought honest .
if i say sooth ,  i must report they were as cannons overcharged with double cracks ,  so they doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe .
i thank you.
send for the man ,  and ask him .
o, answer me!
thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to know him.
you have seen nothing, then?
make haste; thou know'st where i will tarry.
ross: what sights, my lord?
i will hear brutus speak .
him and his worth and our great need of him you have right well conceited .
beware the ides of march .
find them out whose names are written here ?
i'll call them back again to comfort me.
could i repair what she will wear in me as i can change these poor accoutrements ,  'twere well for kate and better for myself .
where are these hearts ?
who was the thane lives yet, but under heavy judgement bears that life which he deserves to lose.
inform her full of my particular fear ,  and thereto add such reasons of your own as may compact it more .
my leisure serves me ,  pensive daughter ,  now . — my lord ,  we must entreat the time alone .
if fortune be not ours today ,  it is because we brave her .
do you think i meant country matters ?
you have her father’s love ,  demetrius .
your wife and brother made wars upon me ,  and their contestation was theme for you .
goes it against the main of poland, sir, or for some frontier?
help!
but here comes antony . —welcome ,  mark antony .
did i not meet thy friends ?
is it they ?
if she do bid me pack ,  i’ll give her thanks ,  as though she bid me stay by her a week .
no man bears sorrow better.
look on the tragic loading of this bed; this is thy work.
o weary night ,  o long and tedious night ,  abate thy hours !
my lord ,  what is your will ?
nay ,  i'll conjure too .
our fortune on the sea is out of breath and sinks most lamentably .
hath romeo slain himself ?
is it the king?
would you not have me honest ?
if any bark put forth ,  come to the mart ,  where i will walk till thou return to me .
slight ,  will you make an ass o' me ?
she might lie by an emperor's side ,  and command him tasks .
antonio ,  as i heard in genoa— what ,  what ,  what ?
what ,  is my beaver easier than it was ?
come ,  go with me apart; i will withdraw ,  to furnish me with some swift means of death for the fair devil .
by day and night he wrongs me .
how long have you been a sectary astronomical ?
you dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy .
what ,  are they children ?
ay ,  and wisely .
your tributary drops belong to woe, which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
here’s another more potent than the first .
i am much bound to you .
no ,  by mine honour ,  madam ,  by my soul ,  no woman had it ,  but a civil doctor ,  which did refuse three thousand ducats of me and begg'd the ring; the which i did deny him ,  and suffer'd him to go displeas'd away; even he that had uphold the very life of my dear friend .
it is my will; the which if thou respect ,  show a fair presence and put off these frowns ,  an ill - beseeming semblance for a feast .
fathers commonly do get their children .
through athens i am thought as fair as she .
riddling confession finds but riddling shrift .
the heart is sorely charged .
censure me in your wisdom ,  and awake your senses ,  that you may the better judge .
down!
go thither, and with unattainted eye compare her face with some that i shall show, and i will make thee think thy swan a crow.
and true she is ,  as she hath proved herself .
the heart is sorely charged .
that which i gave you.
bring the villain forth.
i am the drudge, and toil in your delight; but you shall bear the burden soon at night.
can you do me greater harm than hate?
i beseech you ,  sir ,  pardon me .
confess?—handkerchief?—o devil!
he may not, as unvalued persons do, carve for himself; for on his choice depends the safety and health of this whole state, and therefore must his choice be circumscribed unto the voice and yielding of that body whereof he is the head.
flies may do this ,  but i from this must fly .
the more pity that fools may not speak wisely what wise men do foolishly .
you juggler !
name the day of marriage ,  and god give thee joy .
come now, keep thine oath; now be a freeman, and with this good sword, that ran through caesar's bowels, search this bosom.
if it were now to die ,  'twere now to be most happy ,  for i fear my soul hath her content so absolute that not another comfort like to this succeeds in unknown fate .
well ,  let his father be what a will ,  we talk of young master launcelot .
now i have taken heart thou vanishest.
damn her, lewd minx!
i charge you ,  get you home .
can you inquire him out and be edified by report ?
his fault is much ,  and the good king his master will check him for ’t .
that is the voice, or i am much deceiv'd, of portia.
how do you ,  desdemona ?
o ,  speak again ,  bright angel !
therefore speak no more .
lo ,  where he comes !
god made him and therefore let him pass for a man .
so please you— what says the fellow there ?
where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord, we cannot get from him.
no money ,  on my faith ,  but the gleek .
antonio ,  i am married to a wife which is as dear to me as life itself .
what ,  man ?
we’ll to th’ river .
what said he when he came unto himself?
monsieur cobweb; good monsieur, get you your weapons in your hand and kill me a red-hipped humble-bee on the top of a thistle; and, good monsieur, bring me the honey-bag.
on ,  on ,  on ,  on ,  on !
goblin, lead them up and down.
o god’s lady dear ,  are you so hot ?
bring it after me .
tis twenty years till then.
my husband ,  then ?
and know it now ,  the senate have concluded to give this day a crown to mighty caesar .
hark ,  petruchio: she says she’ll see thee hanged first .
but after many ceremonies done ,  he calls for wine .
no ,  when lightwing'd toys of feather'd cupid seel with wanton dullness my speculative and officed instruments ,  that my disports corrupt and taint my business ,  let housewives make a skillet of my helm ,  and all indign and base adversities make head against my estimation !
avaunt !
i know your favor well ,  though now you have no sea - cap on your head . — take him away .
now, what news on the rialto?
i am debating of my present store: and ,  by the near guess of my memory ,  i cannot instantly raise up the gross of full three thousand ducats .
though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked parle ,  know now upon advice ,  it toucheth us both ,  that we may yet again have access to our fair mistress and be happy rivals in bianca’s love ,  to labor and effect one thing specially .
there are more things in heaven and earth ,  horatio ,  than are dreamt of in your philosophy .
god 'a'mercy on his soul !
begin you to grow upon me ?
fore god ,  my lord ,  well spoken ,  with good accent and good discretion .
ay, and wisely too, for ’twould have anger'd any heart alive to hear the men deny't.
the messengers of venice stays the meat .
something sure of state ,  either from venice or some unhatch'd practice made demonstrable here in cyprus to him ,  hath puddled his clear spirit; and in such cases men's natures wrangle with inferior things ,  though great ones are their object .
the king’s a - bed .
what dost thou say ?
my lord ,  i claim the gift ,  my due by promise ,  for which your honor and your faith is pawned— th' earldom of hereford and the movables which you promisèd i shall possess .
would they were basilisks to strike thee dead .
so please you ,  something touching the lord hamlet .
know’st thou the way to dover ?
approach ,  rich ceres ,  her to entertain .
merciful heaven !
i’ll fetch them ,  sir .
portia is dead .
i warrant you ,  you shall find the ceremonies of the wars and the cares of it and the forms of it and the sobriety of it and the modesty of it to be otherwise .
shall she come in ?
the jew shall have all justice .
come ,  father ,  i’ll bestow you with a friend .
i would i knew thy heart .
o hateful day !
and thither will i straight to visit him.
i am glad to see you mad .
ely with richmond troubles me more near than buckingham and his rash - levied strength .
the foul practice hath turn'd itself on me .
it is just so high as it is ,  and moves with its own organs .
i am christophero sly .
these sentences ,  to sugar or to gall ,  being strong on both sides ,  are equivocal .
doth his majesty incline to it or no ?
and his unbookish jealousy must construe poor cassio’s smiles ,  gestures ,  and light behavior quite in the wrong . —how do you now ,  lieutenant ?
hark !
trust not to rotten planks .
lay thy finger thus ,  and let thy soul be instructed .
come ,  poor remains of friends ,  rest on this rock .
tis true ,  this god did shake !
i could interpret between you and your love, if i could see the puppets dallying.
when shall we three meet again?
on thursday, sir?
what man is that?
lady !
what would my lord ?
a likely piece of work ,  that you should find it in your chamber ,  and not know who left it there !
i pray you ,  though you mock me ,  gentlemen ,  let her not hurt me .
you know the law .
alas, alas!
what ho ,  horatio !
with her ,  on her ,  what you will .
will you tear impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
they mean to warn us at philippi here ,  answering before we do demand of them .
hark !
the king has killed his heart .
how shall we then behold their natural tears ?
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness ,  and fear’st to die ?
there is no world without verona walls ,  but purgatory ,  torture ,  hell itself .
i speak but as i find .
i can say little more than i have studied ,  and that question’s out of my part .
stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
this bud of love ,  by summer’s ripening breath ,  may prove a beauteous flower when next we meet .
he is full so valiant ,  and in his commendations i am fed; it is a banquet to me .
welcome ,  my lord .
the night has been unruly .
i hear none ,  madam .
under a compelling occasion ,  let women die .
i must discontinue your company .
why, how now, hamlet?
so swift a pace hath thought that even now you may imagine him upon blackheath ,  where that his lords desire him to have borne his bruisèd helmet and his bended sword before him through the city .
if it were done when ’tis done ,  then ’twere well it were done quickly .
is she to be buried in christian burial that wilfully seeks her own salvation?
he took me by the wrist and held me hard; then goes he to the length of all his arm ,  and ,  with his other hand thus o'er his brow ,  he falls to such perusal of my face as he would draw it .
make we our march towards birnam .
we will speak further .
for if thou dost intend never so little show of love to her ,  thou shalt aby it .
or sleep i now and think i hear all this ?
judge me the world if ’tis not gross in sense that thou hast practiced on her with foul charms ,  abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals that weakens motion .
but who comes here ?
oh ,  farewell !
pray you, tell me this; if he should break his day, what should i gain by the exaction of the forfeiture?
well ,  i'll set you forth .
sit down and feed ,  and welcome to our table .
despis'd, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
i answer you ?
wilt thou lift up olympus ?
go tell him of this .
that handkerchief did an egyptian to my mother give; she was a charmer, and could almost read the thoughts of people.
i dare abide no longer .
where nothing, but who knows nothing, is once seen to smile; where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air, are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems a modern ecstasy.
no, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.
name what part i am for, and proceed.
how many times shall caesar bleed in sport ,  that now on pompey’s basis lies along no worthier than the dust !
follow not; i'll have no speaking; i will have my bond .
is it his use ?
the single and peculiar life is bound with all the strength and armour of the mind to keep itself from noyance; but much more that spirit upon whose weal depends and rests the lives of many .
wilt thou slay thyself?
our fears in banquo stick deep, and in his royalty of nature reigns that which would be fear'd.
where art thou ,  keeper ?
bid them all fly ,  for when i am revenged upon my charm ,  i have done all .
who stocked my servant ?
from this time forth i never will speak word .
bid farewell to your sisters .
what wouldst thou ,  fellow ?
hamlet ,  thou art slain; no medicine in the world can do thee good .
go ,  good partner ,  go ,  get you to francis seacole .
lucilius and titinius ,  bid the commanders prepare to lodge their companies tonight .
here comes my noble gull - catcher .
what wicked and dissembling glass of mine made me compare with hermia's sphery eyne ?
a hit ,  a very palpable hit .
let’s stay and hear the will .
you or any man living may be drunk at some time, man.
for the heavens ,  rouse up a brave mind ,  ”  says the fiend ,   “ and run .  ”  well ,  my conscience ,  hanging about the neck of my heart ,  says very wisely to me ,   “ my honest friend launcelot ,  being an honest man’s son ” —or rather an honest woman’s son ,  for indeed my father did something smack ,  something grow to .
i hate it as an unfilled can .
go ,  sir andrew .
you have little cause to say so.
what man dost thou dig it for ?
it is here ,  hamlet .
he sent me word if i said his beard was not cut well ,  he was in the mind it was .
what, ho!
he’s now in florence .
why do you cross me in this exigent ?
i prithee, when thou seest that act afoot, even with the very comment of thy soul observe my uncle.
if charnel houses and our graves must send those that we bury back ,  our monuments shall be the maws of kites .
o the heavens!
how much more elder art thou than thy looks !
o heavens ,  this is my true - begotten father !
ay, too gentle.
thither he will come to know his destiny .
signior fabian ,  stay you by this gentleman till my return .
your answer to that .
what night - rule now about this haunted grove ?
here lay duncan ,  his silver skin laced with his golden blood ,  and his gashed stabs looked like a breach in nature for ruin’s wasteful entrance; there ,  the murderers ,  steeped in the colors of their trade ,  their daggers unmannerly breeched with gore .
i will not sleep ,  my lord ,  till i have delivered your letter .
here lies the county slain; and juliet bleeding ,  warm ,  and newly dead ,  who here hath lain this two days buried .
hath romeo slain himself ?
how came her eyes so bright?
they were traitors .
excellent good .
let me question more in particular .
this heavy - headed revel east and west makes us traduced and taxed of other nations .
this shall make our purpose necessary and not envious ,  which so appearing to the common eyes ,  we shall be call'd purgers ,  not murderers .
twill endure wind and weather .
there needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave to tell us this.
we’ll be friends first .
your worth is very dear in my regard .
so am i purposed .
what ?
yes ,  nightingales answer daws !
trust me ,  i could do much— prithee ,  no more .
what do i see on thee ?
ay ,  good my lord .
you ,  cousin .
o cassius, i am sick of many griefs.
ye say honestly .
stands scotland where it did ?
my best way is to creep under his gaberdine .
marry, my child, early next thursday morn the gallant, young, and noble gentleman, the county paris, at saint peter's church, shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
how goes it here ?
why ,  wherefore ask you this ?
get you away; i'll send for you anon .
fair ladies ,  you drop manna in the way of starved people .
give me your hand; conduct me to mine host .
out, you green-sickness carrion!
i muse why she’s at liberty .
near birnam wood shall we well meet them; that way are they coming .
doth she not count her blest, unworthy as she is, that we have wrought so worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
my mistress and her sister stays for you .
how long is that since ?
great tyranny ,  lay thou thy basis sure ,  for goodness dare not check thee .
it is the cause.
go, get thee hence, for i will not away.
the same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
you have done well ,  that men must lay their murders on your neck .
they would not have you to stir forth today.
this damned witch sycorax ,  for mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible to enter human hearing ,  from algiers thou know'st was banished—for one thing she did they would not take her life .
why, man?
madam ,  what should i do ?
i will plague them all ,  even to roaring .
i do desire you not to deny this imposition ,  the which my love ,  and some necessity ,  now lays upon you .
and you ,  sir .
if ,  rather than to marry county paris ,  thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself ,  then is it likely thou wilt undertake a thing like death to chide away this shame ,  that cop’st with death himself to scape from it; and ,  if thou dar'st ,  i'll give thee remedy .
would it were mortal poison for thy sake .
let us ,  lepidus ,  not lack your company .
that matter is answered directly.
where’s my knave ,  my fool ? —go you ,  and call my fool hither .
this is signior antonio.
a king ,  perhaps— my lord— how chance the prophet could not at that time have told me ,  i being by ,  that i should kill him ?
make no noise ,  make no noise .
why is my lord enraged against his love ?
tell me ,  if your art can tell so much: shall banquo’s issue ever reign in this kingdom ?
no ,  madam ,  he does nothing but smile .
i am very glad to see you ,  signior .
and you all know ,  security is mortals' chiefest enemy .
lovers ,  to bed .
my lord, i'll hit him now.
it appears, by his small light of discretion, that he is in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all reason, we must stay the time.
thou art as wise as thou art beautiful .
i must attend on caesar .
i tell thee, churlish priest, a ministering angel shall my sister be when thou liest howling.
rest you merry!
answer as i call you . —nick bottom ,  the weaver ?
approach the chamber ,  and destroy your sight with a new gorgon .
there's many a beast then in a populous city, and many a civil monster.
yes, you are.
down with him ,  thief !
here’s lucentio ,  right son to the right vincentio ,  that have by marriage made thy daughter mine while counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne .
a certain convocation of politic worms are e'en at him.
let's do't ,  i pray: and i this morning know where we shall find him most conveniently .
oh ,  wonderful !
thou hast .
no ?
farewell ,  sweet masters both .
who’s there ,  besides foul weather ?
blessed pudding !
my fairy lord, this must be done with haste, for night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast; and yonder shines aurora's harbinger, at whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there, troop home to churchyards.
go sleep ,  and hear us .
so . — thus then ,  thou most renowned: caesar entreats not to consider in what case thou stand’st ,  further than he is caesar .
what lawful quest have given their verdict up unto the frowning judge ?
was he not born of woman ?
antonio shall become bound , —well .
and of all christian souls ,  i pray god .
this is a most majestic vision ,  and harmonious charmingly .
tell him ,  so please him come unto this place ,  he shall be satisfied and ,  by my honor ,  depart untouch'd .
pah !
in such a night ,  stood dido ,  with a willow in her hand ,  upon the wild sea - banks ,  and waft her love to come again to carthage .
madam ,  i have a touch of your condition ,  which cannot brook the accent of reproof .
thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end !
othello !
why ,  how now ,  monsieur ?
i should be angry with you if the time were convenient .
and as with age his body uglier grows ,  so his mind cankers .
his reason well i know .
i will tell you everything ,  right as it fell out .
do as i bid thee .
where i have learnt me to repent the sin of disobedient opposition to you and your behests ,  and am enjoin'd by holy laurence to fall prostrate here to beg your pardon .
there’s a great abatement of kindness appears as well in the general dependants as in the duke himself also ,  and your daughter .
all the perfumes of arabia will not sweeten this little hand .
he that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven and fire us hence like foxes .
if one knight give a— would you have a love song or a song of good life ?
look you how pale he glares!
which is the merchant here ,  and which the jew ?
why ,  sir ,  i brought you word an hour since that the bark  the fellow is distract ,  and so am i ,  and here we wander in illusions .
dost thou affect her ,  claudio ?
would he would change!
when ’twas a little prating thing . —oh ,  there is a nobleman in town ,  one paris ,  that would fain lay knife aboard ,  but she ,  good soul ,  had as lief see a toad ,  a very toad ,  as see him .
my countryman: but yet i know him not .
signior baptista ,  you are happily met . — sir ,  this is the gentleman i told you of .
helen ,  it is not so .
so do the kings of france unto this day ,  howbeit they would hold up this salic law to bar your highness claiming from the female and rather choose to hide them in a net than amply to imbar their crooked titles usurped from you and your progenitors .
o lady, speak again!
sings] [sings] come unto these yellow sands ,  and than take hands; curtsied when you have and the kissed— the wild waves whist— foot it featly here and there ,  and ,  sweet sprites ,  bear the burden .
captain fluellen .
my husband ?
i do not ,  sir .
look to the bak'd meats ,  good angelica; spare not for cost .
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness and fearest to die?
give thy thoughts no tongue, nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
what's that, my lord?
if he be not born to be hanged ,  our case is miserable .
silence !
and now who knows but you ,  lorenzo ,  whether i am yours ?
i do not like thy look ,  i promise thee .
o thou weed, who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet that the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst ne'er been born!
yare ,  lower ,  lower !
thyself art coming to see performed the dreaded act which thou so sought’st to hinder .
the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers .
o god !
ay ,  very well ,  my lord .
and cries aloud ,   “ tarry ,  my cousin suffolk .
my father’s love is enough to honor him .
all this can i truly deliver.
something from venice ,  sure .
did you say with cassio ?
tis good you know not that you are his heirs ,  for if you should ,  o ,  what would come of it !
oh ,  pardon me ,  signior gremio ,  i would fain be doing .
a single thing ,  as i am now ,  that wonders to hear thee speak of naples .
what ,  no more ?
no ,  nor mine now .
talk you of young master launcelot ? —mark me now—now will i raise the waters . —talk you of young master launcelot ?
this will i also wear in my cap .
sextus pompeius makes his approaches to the port of rome .
hark !
i anger her sometimes ,  and tell her that paris is the properer man; but i'll warrant you ,  when i say so ,  she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world .
come like shadows; so depart !
when comes such another ?
thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here, shalt with him hence.
who is here so base that would be a bondman ?
content, in faith; i'll seal to such a bond, and say there is much kindness in the jew.
they are beaten ,  sir ,  and our advantage serves for a fair victory .
they’ll mar my counterfeiting .
will you hear me ,  roderigo ?
where should othello go ?
how now ,  sirrah !
thy bed ,  lust - stained ,  shall with lust’s blood be spotted .
it then draws near the season wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
brutus killed me .
what man is that ?
i bleed, sir, but not kill'd.
music ,  and a song music ,  and a song hark !
who comes so fast in silence of the night ?
help ,  angels !
come, let me clutch thee.
do so ,  and after two days i will discharge thee .
to alonso] therefore, my lord,— [to alonso] therefore, my lord,— [to sebastian] fie, what a spendthrift is he of his [to sebastian] fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
thou ,  wretched boy ,  that didst consort him here ,  shalt with him hence .
please it your grace lead on ?
then know that from my soul i love thy daughter .
let them come before master constable .
o the blessed gods !
you have seen nothing ,  then ?
i prithee ,  take thy fingers from my throat; for ,  though i am not splenitive and rash ,  yet have i in me something dangerous ,  which let thy wisdom fear .
oh ,  the heavens !
what says the golden chest ?
nay ,  you must forget that .
so fare you well till we shall meet again .
i shall do so; but i must also feel it as a man.
mistress ,  we have .
i say i will make him eat some part of my leek ,  or i will peat his pate four days . —bite ,  i pray you .
we’ll set thee to school to an ant to teach thee there’s no laboring i' th' winter .
i hear a tongue ,  shriller than all the music ,  cry  “ caesar !  ” —speak .
you’d be king o' th' isle ,  sirrah ?
the great contention of the sea and skies parted our fellowship—but ,  hark !
no, i hear not your honest friend; i hear you.
we’ll leave you ,  brutus .
your highness told me i should post before .
this way will i .  disrobe the images if you do find them decked with ceremonies .
but is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration ?
i am not furnished with the present money .
by running fast .
was milan thrust from milan, that his issue should become kings of naples?
canst work i' the earth so fast?
if you shall cleave to my consent ,  when ’tis ,  it shall make honor for you .
i’ll find romeo to comfort you .
let hercules himself do what he may ,  the cat will mew ,  and dog will have his day .
now ,  forward with your tale . —prithee ,  stand farther off .
no ,  my good lord .
i come ,  anon . —but if thou meanest not well ,  i do beseech thee— madam !
but let the frame of things disjoint ,  both the worlds suffer ,  ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep in the affliction of these terrible dreams that shake us nightly .
so all hail ,  macbeth and banquo !
o, where, my lord?
macduff is missing, and your noble son.
this by calpurnia's dream is signified.
upon the stroke of ten .
didst not mark that?
am i yourself but ,  as it were ,  in sort or limitation ,  to keep with you at meals ,  comfort your bed ,  and talk to you sometimes ?
someone take order buckingham be brought to salisbury .
look where she comes .
look ,  where he comes .
pronounce this sentence then: women may fall when there's no strength in men .
i have a letter guessingly set down ,  which came from one that’s of a neutral heart ,  and not from one opposed .
strike the vessels ,  ho !
the better that your lordship please to ask .
a halter pardon him!
he does confess he feels himself distracted ,  but from what cause he will by no means speak .
how comes it ,  michael ,  you are thus forgot ?
done .
i must needs tell thee all .
i pray you ,  dissuade him from her .
my sweet mistress weeps when she sees me work ,  and says such baseness had never like executor .
he came to me ,  and i delivered it .
to go out of my dialect ,  which you discommend so much .
oh ,  let us yet be merciful .
what, no more?
well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
tis for the dead ,  not for the quick .
her vestal livery is but sick and green, and none but fools do wear it.
you are a royal one ,  and we obey you .
is he pursued ?
even so . —cover their faces .
ay.
good morrow, worthy caesar!
i humbly thank your ladyship .
what hast thou done ?
the world affords no law to make thee rich .
he's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies ,  is stab -  bing .
thy letters have transported me beyond this ignorant present ,  and i feel now the future in the instant .
tis lodovico come from the duke.
this fellow's of exceeding honesty ,  and knows all qualities ,  with a learned spirit ,  of human dealings .
past all expressing.
what will you do with ’t ,  that you have been so earnest to have me filch it ?
or do you play the flouting jack ,  to tell us cupid is a good hare - finder and vulcan a rare carpenter ?
come ,  come ,  you are a fool ,  and turned into the extremity of love .
i speak not to disprove what brutus spoke ,  but here i am to speak what i do know .
impatient of my absence ,  and grief that young octavius with mark antony have made themselves so strong: for with her death that tidings came: with this she fell distract ,  and ,  her attendants absent ,  swallow'd fire .
not in my husband’s nose .
why, so i do.
then ,  tell me ,  who’s the next heir of naples ?
o this learning ,  what a thing it is !
on a trice ,  so please you ,  even in a dream were we divided from them and were brought moping hither .
is't possible?
thanks ,  dear my lord .
but sadly ,  tell me who .
caesar speaks .
that’s the end .
i will deserve your pains .
our bodies are our gardens ,  to the which our wills are gardeners .
do it carefully . —and the noble and true - hearted kent banished ,  his offense honesty !
and when she speaks ,  is it not an alarum to love ?
no ,  he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in athens .
i have heard your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify his rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate ,  and that no lawful means can carry me out of his envy's reach ,  i do oppose my patience to his fury; and am arm'd to suffer ,  with a quietness of spirit ,  the very tyranny and rage of his .
i shall obey, my lord.
and i do think ,  or else this brain of mine hunts not the trail of policy so sure as it hath used to do ,  that i have found the very cause of hamlet's lunacy .
he fears ,  my lord ,  you mean no good to him .
you juggler!
hear it apart .
i like the work well .
let me hear agrippa further speak .
tis not in the bond .
go with me ,  and in the breath of bitter words let’s smother my damnèd son that thy two sweet sons smothered .
never come such division 'tween our souls!
there lies your love .
i will not leave him now till cassio be called to him . —how is ’t with you ,  my lord ?
why, with my lord, madam.
what ,  ho !
but men are men; the best sometimes forget: though cassio did some little wrong to him, as men in rage strike those that wish them best, yet surely cassio, i believe, received from him that fled some strange indignity, which patience could not pass.
i had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth than it should do offence to michael cassio .
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness and fearest to die ?
for certainly thou art so near the gulf thou needs must be englutted .
when i burned in desire to question them further ,  they made themselves air ,  into which they vanished .
fear you the boar ,  and go so unprovided ?
sirs ,  i will practice on this drunken man .
my husband !
the worser welcome .
will it not be received ,  when we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two of his own chamber ,  and used their very daggers ,  that they have done't ?
ay, hamlet.
no marvel then ,  though he were ill affected .
she hath directed how i shall take her from her father's house; what gold and jewels she is furnish'd with; what page's suit she hath in readiness.
my lord, i do not know that i did cry.
my husband !
therefore ,  good brutus ,  be prepared to hear ,  and since you know you cannot see yourself so well as by reflection ,  i your glass will modestly discover to yourself that of yourself which you yet know not of .
had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge had stomach for them all.
that handkerchief thou speak’st of i found by fortune and did give my husband .
tis the way to call hers ,  exquisite ,  in question more .
and do you now cull out a holiday ?
i will then give it you soundly .
yet count claudio may hear ,  for what i would speak of concerns him .
say again ,  where didst thou leave these varlets ?
hast thou forgot the foul witch sycorax ,  who with age and envy was grown into a hoop ?
and so ,  without more circumstance at all ,  i hold it fit that we shake hands and part .
come, lieutenant, i have a stoup of wine, and here without are a brace of cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to the health of black othello.
with as little a web as this will i ensnare as great a fly as cassio .
yet ,  if you be out ,  sir ,  i can mend you .
what's best to do?
nay ,  pray you ,  mark .
yet but three?
my master’s .
where is the horse that doth untread again his tedious measures with the unbated fire that he did pace them first ?
farewell .
you have been talk'd of since your travel much ,  and that in hamlet's hearing ,  for a quality wherein they say you shine .
the duke in council ?
tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
perchance ,  iago ,  i will ne'er go home .
some comfort ,  nurse .
safely stow'd.
speak the speech ,  i pray you ,  as i pronounced it to you ,  trippingly on the tongue .
no ,  my lord .
heart ,  once be stronger than thy continent .
he is dead and gone, lady, he is dead and gone; at his head a grass-green turf, at his heels a stone.
how doth that royal merchant, good antonio?
i loved you not .
what's the matter?
the gods defend him from so great a shame !
i must remove some thousands of these logs and pile them up ,  upon a sore injunction .
now ,  by the faith of my love ,  i will .
my industrious servant ,  ariel !
no ,  that you shall not till you take her hand before this friar and swear to marry her .
i pray now ,  keep below .
tis monstrous .
but to be frank ,  and give it thee again .
give me the letter.
i would not be mad .
is she as tall as me ?
tush ,  tush ,  man ,  never fleer and jest at me .
turn ,  hell hound ,  turn !
this lodovico is a proper man .
brutus shall lead ,  and we will grace his heels with the most boldest and best hearts of rome .
she desires to speak with you in her closet ,  ere you go to bed .
brutus, and caesar: what should be in that caesar?
i can see a church by daylight .
or else were this a savage spectacle .
to ferdinand] one word more; i [to ferdinand] one word more; i charge thee that thou attend me .
come ,  stir ,  stir ,  stir !
look you, she lov'd her kinsman tybalt dearly, and so did i.
so i am free .
behold her well; i pray you ,  look upon her .
i will fetch off my bottle ,  though i be o'er ears for my labour .
i’ll confine myself no finer than i am .
i’ll do the service of a younger man in all your business and necessities .
i pray you now receive them .
your majesty says very true .
my lord, do as you please; but, if you hold it fit, after the play, let his queen mother all alone entreat him to show his grief.
lucius, a bowl of wine!
one minded like the weather ,  most unquietly .
how have the hours racked and tortured me since i have lost thee !
dost thou not laugh ?
i conjure thee by all the saints in heaven .
honest iago, that look'st dead with grieving, speak, who began this?
what's he that now is going out of door ?
i hope, in no place so unsanctified where such as thou mayst find him.
do grace to caesar's corse ,  and grace his speech tending to caesar's glories ,  which mark antony ,  by our permission ,  is allow'd to make .
either death or you i'll find immediately.
how fares our cousin ,  noble lord of york ?
seyton—i am sick at heart ,  when i behold—seyton ,  i say ! —this push will cheer me ever or disseat me now .
thou shalt not die .
are we cuckolds, ere we have deserv'd it?
pitiful sight !
no man bears sorrow better .
i will none .
o thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
and tell the dauphin his jest will savor but of shallow wit when thousands weep more than did laugh at it .
this is the day wherein i wished to fall by the false faith of him who most i trusted .
list a word .
my fate cries out, and makes each petty artery in this body as hardy as the nemean lion's nerve.
dead.
what should we say, my lord?
tell me ,  daughter juliet ,  how stands your disposition to be married ?
as i remember ,  this should be the house .
good volumnius, thou know'st that we two went to school together; even for that our love of old, i prithee, hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst i run on it.
poor souls ,  the perished .
is not this stephano ,  my drunken butler ?
it is a theme as fluent as the sea .
this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter ,  and ,  my fortunes against any lay worth naming ,  this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before .
see for the news.
tell antony, brutus is ta'en.
sir, in algiers.
that nature ,  which contemns its origin cannot be bordered certain in itself .
fled to his house amazed .
we did keep time ,  sir ,  in our catches .
i have been up this hour ,  awake all night .
whose noise is this that ones on murder ?
what ,  rouse thee ,  man !
you would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music, excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it speak.
adieu .
lead ,  boy .
ho, daughter!
we do not come ,  as minding to content you ,  our true intent is .
so well thy words become thee as thy wounds; they smack of honor both .
here hung those lips that i have kissed i know not how oft.
i think it is the weakness of mine eyes that shapes this monstrous apparition .
here ,  villain ,  drawn and ready .
that will i ,  should i die the hour after .
but there the duke was given to understand that in a gondola were seen together lorenzo and his amorous jessica .
has here writ a letter to you .
the duke cannot deny the course of law ,  for the commodity that strangers have with us in venice; if it be denied ,  'twill much impeach the justice of the state; since that the trade and profit of the city consisteth of all nations .
follow that lord ,  and look you mock him not .
if i can recover him and keep him tame and get to naples with him ,  he’s a present for any emperor that ever trod on neat’s leather .
we’ll see 'em starve first .
being holiday ,  the beggar’s shop is shut .
but now behold ,  in the quick forge and workinghouse of thought ,  how london doth pour out her citizens .
poor birds they are not set for.
so ,  with two seeming bodies but one heart ,  two of the first ,  like coats in heraldry ,  due but to one and crownèd with one crest .
i am no strumpet ,  but of life as honest as you that thus abuse me .
he .
that’s a fault that water will mend .
those that hobgoblin call you ,  and sweet puck ,  you do their work ,  and they shall have good luck .
she that i spake of, our great captain's captain, left in the conduct of the bold iago; whose footing here anticipates our thoughts a se'nnight's speed.
very like; one of them is a plain fish ,  and no doubt marketable .
bless you ,  fair dame !
within the infant rind of this small flower poison hath residence and medicine power .
silence that dreadful bell ,  it frights the isle from her propriety .
and pluck the wings from painted butterflies to fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes .
honour ,  riches ,  marriage - blessing ,  long continuance ,  and increasing ,  hourly joys be still upon you !
father, what news?
by my troth ,  a good song .
i will run .
so ,  thanks to all at once and to each one ,  whom we invite to see us crowned at scone .
thou are too like the spirit of banquo .
helen ,  to you our minds we will unfold .
young gentleman ,  your spirits are too bold for your years .
speak !
leave holloaing ,  man .
but have i not cause to weep ?
most grave brabantio, in simple and pure soul i come to you.
noble captain ,  come .
worthy macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
not that ,  i hope ,  which you received of me .
i think i can discover him ,  if you please to get good guard ,  and go along with me .
but now i’ll tell thee joyful tidings ,  girl .
if you choose that wherein i am contained ,  straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized .
to these injunctions every one doth swear ,  that comes to hazard for my worthless self .
but how hath she received his love ?
two of them have the very bent of honor ,  and if their wisdoms be misled in this ,  the practice of it lives in john the bastard ,  whose spirits toil in frame of villainies .
come, mistress, you must tell's another tale.
so are you, sweet, even in the lovely garnish of a boy.
what rhubarb, senna, or what purgative drug would scour these english hence?
your emperor continues still a jove .
i have a head, sir, that will find out logs and never trouble peter for the matter.
i charge you ,  as you hope to have redemption ,  by christ’s dear blood shed for our grievous sins ,  that you depart ,  and lay no hands on me .
amen!
rather your eyes must with his judgment look .
bid your friends welcome ,  show a merry cheer .
where is demetrius ?
tell me not ,  friar ,  that thou hear’st of this ,  unless thou tell me how i may prevent it .
i must have liberty withal ,  as large a charter as the wind ,  to blow on whom i please ,  for so fools have .
therefore thou liest .
thou dost speak masterly .
alas ,  you know not .
no, sir, i do not bite my thumb at you, sir; but i bite my thumb, sir.
whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself and you of her ,  the bloody book of law you shall yourself read in the bitter letter after your own sense .
then wherefore should i doubt ?
fool !
tis called the evil .
no, for then we should be colliers.
go ,  sirrah ,  trudge about through fair verona .
but now, my lord.
rescue ,  my lord of norfolk ,  rescue ,  rescue !
my way of life is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf, and that which should accompany old age, as honor, love, obedience, troops of friends, i must not look to have; but, in their stead, curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath, which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not.
o, he is mad, laertes.
or that i had any friend would be a man for my sake !
your vessels and your spells provide ,  your charms and every thing beside .
o jupiter ,  how weary are my spirits !
to thine and albany’s issue be this perpetual . —what says our second daughter ,  our dearest regan ,  wife of cornwall ?
o woeful day ,  o woeful day !
give me my principal, and let me go.
let’s stab ourselves .
who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting ?
rebellion's head ,  rise never ,  till the wood of birnam rise ,  and our high - placed macbeth shall live the lease of nature ,  pay his breath to time and mortal custom .
nay, when i have a suit— wherein i mean to touch your love indeed, it shall be full of poise and difficult weight, and fearful to be granted.
what is here ?
if i could add a lie unto a fault, i would deny it; but you see, my finger hath not the ring upon it, it is gone.
they are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that .
i beseech you ,  do me this courteous office ,  as to know of the knight what my offense to him is .
my noble brother !
if partially affined ,  or leagued in office ,  thou dost deliver more or less than truth ,  thou art no soldier .
what dogs are these !
supper is done ,  and we shall come too late .
this done ,  he took the bride about the neck and kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack that at the parting all the church did echo .
hob ,  nob ,  is his word .
if he should offer to choose ,  and choose the right casket ,  you should refuse to perform your father's will ,  if you should refuse to accept him .
i will withdraw; but this intrusion shall, now seeming sweet, convert to bitt'rest gall.
the play’s the thing wherein i’ll catch the conscience of the king .
will you not tell me who told you so ?
all this amazement can i qualify when after that the holy rites are ended i’ll tell you largely of fair hero’s death .
i would the fool were married to her grave!
in troth ,  i think thou wouldst not .
now ,  tybalt ,  take the ‘villain’ back again that late thou gavest me; for mercutio's soul is but a little way above our heads ,  staying for thine to keep him company .
if thou beest slain and with no stroke of mine ,  my wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still .
be as your fancies teach you; whate'er you be ,  i am obedient .
the night has been unruly.
i hope ,  in no place so unsanctified where such as thou mayst find him .
as plain as i see you now .
and now i have the boy, i will undo this hateful imperfection of her eyes.
ay ,  or very falsely pocket up his report .
and when that time comes ,  afflict me with thy mocks ,  pity me not ,  as till that time i shall not pity thee .
ay ,  are you thereabouts ?
ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some instruction .
give me your hands all over ,  one by one .
who’s there ?
you are the queen, your husband's brother's wife, and—would it were not so—you are my mother.
he bears him like a portly gentleman ,  and ,  to say truth ,  verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well - governed youth .
tell me this ,  i pray: where have you left the money that i gave you ?
my life for yours!
the lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient .
thou art a scholar; speak to it, horatio.
now ,  gods ,  stand up for bastards !
he was not sad ,  for he would shine on those that make their looks by his .
upon the talk of the poisoning?
whereon do you look ?
how i dote on thee!
what manner of man ?
thou'rt i' the right .
but i'll be hang'd ,  sir ,  if he wear your livery .
when i burned in desire to question them further, they made themselves air, into which they vanished.
freedom !
this is open .
we'll put the matter to the present push.— good gertrude, set some watch over your son.
what is it ?
larded all with sweet flowers; which bewept to the grave did not go with true-love showers.
call'd you ,  my lord ?
do you hear ?
you kiss by th’ book .
therefore my age is as a lusty winter ,  frosty but kindly .
i swear ’tis better to be much abused than but to know ’t a little .
is ’t come to this ?
i stretch it out for that word ‘broad,’ which, added to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
i am not sorry neither.
what, can the devil speak true?
what is yon gentleman?
she is of so free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition, she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested.
my liberty.
now could i ,  casca ,  name to thee a man most like this dreadful night ,  that thunders ,  lightens ,  opens graves ,  and roars as doth the lion in the capitol ,  a man no mightier than thyself or me in personal action ,  yet prodigious grown and fearful ,  as these strange eruptions are .
o me !
turn thee back ,  and tell thy king i do not seek him now but could be willing to march on to calais without impeachment ,  for ,  to say the sooth ,  though ’tis no wisdom to confess so much unto an enemy of craft and vantage ,  my people are with sickness much enfeebled ,  my numbers lessened ,  and those few i have almost no better than so many french ,  who when they were in health ,  i tell thee ,  herald ,  i thought upon one pair of english legs did march three frenchmen .
ay me !
and are not you my husband ?
these good fellows will bring thee where i am .
when did i see thee so put down ?
yes ,  other men have ill luck too .
he hath neither latin ,  french ,  nor italian ,  and you will come into the court and swear that i have a poor pennyworth in the english .
or any of your faction ?
i am more an antique roman than a dane .
then open not thy lips .
the harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art, is not more ugly to the thing that helps it than is my deed to my most painted word.
when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar ,  they will lay out ten to see a dead indian .
well ,  think of marriage now .
dispatch ,  i say ,  and find the forester .
go get him surgeons .
i would these dewy tears were from the ground .
yonder comes my master ,  your brother .
launcelot and i are out .
set you down this; and say besides, that in aleppo once, where a malignant and a turban'd turk beat a venetian and traduced the state, i took by the throat the circumcised dog and smote him, thus.
your servants ever have theirs ,  themselves ,  and what is theirs ,  in compt ,  to make their audit at your highness’ pleasure ,  still to return your own .
the sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch, but that the sea, mounting to th’ welkin's cheek, dashes the fire out.
with this there grows in my most ill - composed affection such a stanchless avarice that ,  were i king ,  i should cut off the nobles for their lands ,  desire his jewels and this other's house ,  and my more - having would be as a sauce to make me hunger more ,  that i should forge quarrels unjust against the good and loyal ,  destroying them for wealth .
and, to sink in it, should you burden love— too great oppression for a tender thing.
we shall chide downright ,  if i longer stay .
your hand ,  salerio .
now must i to the monument alone .
is it my lady mother ?
see these letters delivered; put the liveries to making; and desire gratiano to come anon to my lodging .
why ,  if two gods should play some heavenly match ,  and on the wager lay two earthly women ,  and portia one ,  there must be something else pawn'd with the other; for the poor rude world hath not her fellow .
let me go ,  sir ,  or i'll knock you o'er the mazzard .
the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail, and you are stay'd for.
sinful macduff ,  they were all struck for thee !
my lord ,  i have news to tell you .
no ,  my dearest love ,  i would not for the world .
sister ,  you’ll go with us ?
proceed directly.
hast thou forgot her ?
poor lady ,  she’ll run mad when she shall lack it .
i doubt some danger does approach you nearly .
tush, thou art deceiv'd.
but i pray you commend my counterfeiting to him .
what, ho, horatio!
drown cats and blind puppies!
which of them shall i take ?
here ,  stand behind this bulk ,  straight will he come .
nay ,  it is .
so that ,  i say ,  he has borne all things well; and i do think that ,  had he duncan's sons under his key— as ,  an't please heaven ,  he shall not—they should find what ’twere to kill a father; so should fleance .
banquo ,  thy soul’s flight ,  if it find heaven ,  must find it out tonight .
you gentle romans— peace, ho!
and from thy hated presence part i so; see me no more, whether he be dead or no.
am i come near ye now ?
three thousand ducats;—'tis a good round sum .
my services, which i have done the signiory, shall out-tongue his complaints.
most beautiful pagan,—most sweet jew!
e'en so .
do the boys carry it away ?
oh ,  bloody period !
after so long grief ,  such nativity !
you have said ,  sir .
but it was—as i received it ,  and others ,  whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine—an excellent play ,  well digested in the scenes ,  set down with as much modesty as cunning .
dost thou not see my baby at my breast ,  that sucks the nurse asleep ?
take in the topsail .
come, he hath hid himself among these trees to be consorted with the humorous night.
take but good note ,  and you shall see in him the triple pillar of the world transformed into a strumpet’s fool .
to ferdinand] what is this maid with whom thou [to ferdinand] what is this maid with whom thou wast at play ?
think so, iago?
i charge thee do so ,  as thou art my child .
for three months,—well.
what if my house be troubled with a rat and i be pleased to give ten thousand ducats to have it baned ?
go on before .
a thousand times the worse ,  to want thy light !
madam!
many a man his life hath sold but my outside to behold .
no more ,  i pray thee .
o most wicked fiend !
do we so.
now ,  good metellus ,  go along by him .
he was not three leagues off when i left him .
safely stowed .
do ,  good friend .
why looks your grace so heavily today ?
good master ,  take it not unkindly ,  pray ,  that i have been thus pleasant with you both .
oh ,  i followed that i blush to look upon !
take away the fool ,  gentlemen .
some god direct my judgment !
art thou gone so ,  love ,  lord ?
let husbands know their wives have sense like them .
o wonderful son ,  that can so astonish a mother !
now, my titania; wake you, my sweet queen.
what is the matter here ?
seigneur valentio and his cousin tybalt; lucio and the lively helena .  ”  a fair assembly .
and truly in my youth i suffered much extremity for love, very near this.
here is a letter, lady; the paper as the body of my friend, and every word in it a gaping wound, issuing life-blood.
how cam'st thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
she has deceived her father ,  and may thee .
for certes these are people of the island, who, though they are of monstrous shape, yet note, their manners are more gentle-kind than of our human generation you shall find many, nay, almost any.
i am thy father's spirit ,  doom'd for a certain term to walk the night ,  and for the day confined to fast in fires ,  till the foul crimes done in my days of nature are burnt and purged away .
the king of naples, being an enemy to me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit; which was that he, in lieu o'th’ premises of homage and i know not how much tribute, should presently extirpate me and mine out of the dukedom, and confer fair milan, with all the honours, on my brother; whereon, a treacherous army levied, one midnight fated to th’ purpose did antonio open the gates of milan, and, i'th’ dead of darkness, the ministers for th’ purpose hurried thence me and thy crying self.
he is attended with a desperate train .
throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth ,  from whence you have them .
nay ,  this was but his dream .
i will give him some relief if it be but for that .
why ,  then ’tis time to arm and give direction .
thou dost not mark me .
he’s in yellow stockings .
will money buy ’em?
i told him that your father was at venice ,  and that you looked for him this day in padua .
say you so?
now i am alone.
i’ll rather dwell in my necessity .
here comes thisbe .
every one that does so is a traitor and must be hanged .
hast stolen it from her ?
great business must be wrought ere noon .
i’ll send my prayers with him .
who is most inward with the noble duke ?
good night, good brother.
i pray you ,  will you take him by the arm ?
adieu .
farewell .
blest fig'send!
this is the fruits of whoring .
where be his quiddities now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures, and his tricks?
reproach and everlasting shame sits mocking in our plumes .
ay ,  you have been a mouse - hunt in your time ,  but i will watch you from such watching now .
well ,  i will hie ,  and so bestow these papers as you bade me .
good love, call him back.
what, dead, my dove?
now ,  by my mother’s son ,  and that’s myself ,  it shall be moon ,  or star ,  or what i list ,  or e'er i journey to your father’s house .
why did you laugh then, when i said man delights not me?
and we mean well ,  in going to this mask; but 'tis no wit to go .
look in upon me then ,  and speak with me ,  or ,  naked as i am ,  i will assault thee .
dost thou lie still ?
bring him before us .
why did he so ?
where’s thy drum ?
fairies, away.
afore me, it is so very very late that we may call it early by-and-by.
you are wel- come to elsinore.
i take't ’tis later ,  sir .
i do beseech you— though i perchance am vicious in my guess, as, i confess, it is my nature's plague to spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy shapes faults that are not—that your wisdom yet, from one that so imperfectly conceits, would take no notice, nor build yourself a trouble out of his scattering and unsure observance.
look, where he comes.
so the gods keep you and make the hearts of romans serve your ends .
tis hot ,  it smokes .
here’s to caesar .
i’ll write to him a very taunting letter ,  and thou shalt bear it .
we'll e'en to't like french falconers, fly at any thing we see.
this is a slight unmeritable man, meet to be sent on errands.
i am sick in displeasure to him ,  and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine .
and what’s the news ,  good cousin lodovico ?
pronounce this sentence then: women may fall when there's no strength in men.
thus says my king:  “ say thou to harry of england ,  though we seemed dead ,  we did but sleep .
one word more .
she’s a most triumphant lady ,  if report be square to her .
help ,  charmian ,  help ,  iras ,  help !
where's the master?
milan and naples have more widows in them of this business' making than we bring men to comfort them .
have we devils here?
truly ,  sir ,  to wear out their shoes ,  to get myself into more work .
i do not like your faults .
mark it, horatio.
madam ,  how like you this play ?
go home ,  be merry ,  give consent to marry paris .
i will this night, in several hands, in at his windows throw, as if they came from several citizens, writings, all tending to the great opinion that rome holds of his name, wherein obscurely caesar's ambition shall be glanced at.
that book in many's eyes doth share the glory ,  that in gold clasps locks in the golden story; so shall you share all that he doth possess ,  by having him making yourself no less .
is it upon record ,  or else reported successively from age to age ,  he built it ?
a king of shreds and patches!
will you give her o'er ?
go carry them ,  and smear the sleepy grooms with blood .
i'll charm the air to give a sound ,  while you perform your antic round ,  that this great king may kindly say our duties did his welcome pay .
o ,  that’s the sword to it .
let him be caesar.
dar’st thou resolve to kill a friend of mine ?
every man shift for all the rest ,  and let no man take care for himself; for all is but fortune .
now, good sweet nurse—o lord, why look'st thou sad?
who ever knew the heavens menace so?
oh ,  i have read it .
set down your venerable burden ,  and let him feed .
my lord ,  for aught i know .
o, shut the door!
very foul .
i hope you will consider what is spoke comes from my love .
let ’t be so ,  good corporal nym .
you lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
canst thou bring me to th' party ?
marian ,  i say !
you are in the right .
these deeds must not be thought after these ways .
turn melancholy forth to funerals .
in the meantime i will draw a bill of properties ,  such as our play wants .
by accident most strange, bountiful fortune, now my dear lady, hath mine enemies brought to this shore; and by my prescience i find my zenith doth depend upon a most auspicious star, whose influence if now i court not, but omit, my fortunes will ever after droop.
what says that fool of hagar’s offspring ,  ha ?
adieu.
that's fouler.
use every man after his desert ,  and who shall 'scape whipping ?
do you consent we shall acquaint him with it ,  as needful in our loves ,  fitting our duty ?
thou’dst shun a bear ,  but if thy flight lay toward the raging sea thou’dst meet the bear i' th' mouth .
besides—i ha' not since put up my sword— against the capitol i met a lion, who glazed upon me and went surly by without annoying me: and there were drawn upon a heap a hundred ghastly women transformed with their fear, who swore they saw men all in fire walk up and down the streets.
a cornish name .
but stay awhile .
who, he?
get me some poison ,  iago ,  this night .
you do advance your cunning more and more .
must i give way and room to your rash choler ?
why, that the moor first gave to desdemona; that which so often you did bid me steal.
tell me ,  othello .
the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars as daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven would through the airy region stream so bright that birds would sing and think it were not night.
iago hath direction what to do; but notwithstanding, with my personal eye will i look to't.
stay!
come on and kiss me ,  kate .
nurse ?
tush ,  never tell me !
what ,  have you writ that letter to my sister ?
even so .
who is it ?
the general speaks to you .
adieu ,  adieu !
nay ,  let him alone .
didst thou not hear somebody ?
how now ,  my lord !
our friends all stay for you .
do not torment me ,  prithee .
i say ‘silver sound’ because musicians sound for silver .
truly, my name is cinna.
to england will i steal ,  and there i’ll steal .
i must be gone .
i must leave them and seek some better service .
when the sea is .
appear thou in the likeness of a sigh; speak but one rhyme, and i am satisfied!
all may be well; but if god sort it so ,  'tis more than we deserve or i expect .
strange things i have in head ,  that will to hand ,  which must be acted ere they may be scanned .
come ,  boy .
i was always plain with you ,  and so now i speak my agitation of the matter .
i shall obey you .
if that you were the good sir rowland’s son ,  as you have whispered faithfully you were ,  and as mine eye doth his effigies witness most truly limned and living in your face ,  be truly welcome hither .
what antony shall speak, i will protest he speaks by leave and by permission, and that we are contented caesar shall have all true rites and lawful ceremonies.
well, i will thither.
he made you for a highway to my bed; but i, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
o, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth, that i am meek and gentle with these butchers!
i loved you not .
i would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body .
then appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony .
hates any man the thing he would not kill ?
if thou rememberest aught ere thou camest here ,  how thou camest here thou mayst .
gave it a judge’s clerk !
farewell till then .
look ,  in this place ran cassius' dagger through .
is he dead ?
have i thought long to see this morning’s face ,  and doth it give me such a sight as this ?
cassio's a proper man .
did not you speak ?
so, so.
come hither ,  my dear hamlet ,  sit by me .
no ,  sir .
stand far off .
what a caterwauling do you keep here !
no ,  my lord .
be patient ,  gentlemen .
will it eat me ?
farewell .
if this which he avouches does appear, there is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
no ,  no !
so, slave, hence!
her husband ,  knave .
are you yet determined today to marry with my brother’s daughter ?
did not you tell me i should know the man by the athenian garments he had on?
that will i ,  pompey .
three months from twelve ,  then .
madam, madam, madam!
roderigo.
the exhalations whizzing in the air give so much light that i may read by them .
alas ,  alas !
if this prove a vision of the island, one dear son shall i twice lose.
you kill me to deny it .
i know you are no truant.
she's framed as fruitful as the free elements .
of the king's ship, the mariners, say how thou hast disposed, and all the rest o'th’ fleet.
the boy gives warning something doth approach.
we will hence forthwith to feast and sport us at thy father’s house .
now ,  by apollo— now ,  by apollo ,  king ,  thou swear’st thy gods in vain .
rebellious subjects ,  enemies to peace ,  profaners of this neighbour - stained steel— will they not hear ?
but all this did i know before .
take me with you, take me with you, wife.
nobody come ?
my decayèd fair a sunny look of his would soon repair .
here lies the east.
o antony !
fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you !
strike ,  as thou didst at caesar ,  for i know ,  when thou didst hate him worst ,  thou lovedst him better than ever thou lovedst cassius .
wrench his sword from him .
have you come by night ,  and stolen my love's heart from him ?
oh ,  he’s a lovely gentleman .
a man, young lady!
alack ,  what heinous sin is it in me to be ashamed to be my father’s child !
delay this marriage for a month ,  a week .
you shall not go .
news ,  madam .
he lies to th' heart .
words, words, words.
do you not see that i am out of breath?
no ,  good mother .
indeed ?
you know me well ,  and herein spend but time ,  to wind about my love with circumstance; and ,  out of doubt ,  you do me now more wrong in making question of my uttermost ,  than if you had made waste of all i have .
upon what cause ?
the whole butt ,  man .
prepare the body then ,  and follow us .
the poor world is almost six thousand years old ,  and in all this time there was not any man died in his own person ,  videlicet ,  in a love cause .
i will requite your loves .
what man was he talked with you yesternight out at your window betwixt twelve and one ?
sweet gertrude ,  leave us too; for we have closely sent for hamlet hither ,  that he ,  as 'twere by accident ,  may here affront ophelia .
and mine ,  to eke out hers .
his affections do not that way tend; nor what he spake ,  though it lack'd form a little ,  was not like madness .
now ,  signior petruchio ,  how speed you with my daughter ?
cry  “ holla ”  to thy tongue ,  i prithee .
we have been praying for our husbands' welfare ,  which speed ,  we hope ,  the better for our words .
i do defy thy conjuration and apprehend thee for a felon here.
why, he had none.
my royal lord ,  you do not give the cheer .
the head is not more native to the heart, the hand more instrumental to the mouth, than is the throne of denmark to thy father.
wheresoever you had it ,  i'll take out no work on't .
but indeed, if you find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up the stair, into the lobby.
i dare not confess that lest i should compare with him in excellence ,  but to know a man well were to know himself .
my services which i have done the signiory shall out - tongue his complaints .
he cries for you ,  and vows ,  if he can take you ,  to scorch your face and to disfigure you .
now would i give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground: long heath ,  brown furze ,  anything .
tomorrow with your earliest let me have speech with you .
stop thy unhallowed toil ,  vile montague !
now could i drink hot blood ,  and do such bitter business as the day would quake to look on .
have you heard of no likely wars toward ’twixt the two dukes of cornwall and albany ?
they are not near my conscience; their defeat does by their own insinuation grow.
give him this money and these notes, reynaldo.
these are news indeed!
she ,  dying ,  gave it me and bid me ,  when my fate would have me wived ,  to give it her .
i am informed thoroughly of the cause.
the boy gives warning something doth approach .
thy husband.
so is mine . —do you hear ,  monster ?
what can be avoided whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
the moor already changes with my poison .
our general’s wife is now the general .
you make me strange even to the disposition that i owe ,  when now i think you can behold such sights ,  and keep the natural ruby of your cheeks when mine is blanch'd with fear .
no, not to live.
what tributaries follow him to rome to grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels ?
what is thisbe ?
farewell .
the mousetrap.
that handkerchief thou speak'st of i found by fortune and did give my husband; for often with a solemn earnestness ,  more than indeed belong'd to such a trifle ,  he begg'd of me to steal it .
my lord ,  i have remembrances of yours that i have longed long to redeliver .
is your merry humor altered ?
i’ll do ’t ,  my lord .
ride thou unto the horsemen on yond hill .
gremio ,  ’tis now no time to vent our love .
o ,  that that earth ,  which kept the world in awe should patch a wall to expel the winter's flaw !
i hid me under the dead mooncalf’s gaberdine for fear of the storm .
but i will acquaint my daughter withal ,  that she may be the better prepared for an answer if peradventure this be true .
heavens shield lysander, if they mean a fray!
farewell .
ere i ope his letter ,  i pray you tell me how my good friend doth .
ay, my lord.
he is at hand ,  and pindarus is come to do you salutation from his master .
nay ,  when i have a suit— wherein i mean to touch your love indeed ,  it shall be full of poise and difficult weight ,  and fearful to be granted .
why ,  how now ,  hamlet ?
conscience ,  ”  say i ,   “ you counsel well .  ”   “ fiend ,  ”  say i ,   “ you counsel well .  ”  to be ruled by my conscience i should stay with the jew my master ,  who ,  god bless the mark ,  is a kind of devil .
fillet of a fenny snake ,  in the cauldron boil and bake; eye of newt and toe of frog ,  wool of bat and tongue of dog ,  adder's fork and blind - worm's sting ,  lizard's leg and howlet's wing ,  for a charm of powerful trouble ,  like a hell - broth boil and bubble .
i have neither the scholar’s melancholy ,  which is emulation; nor the musician’s ,  which is fantastical; nor the courtier’s ,  which is proud; nor the soldier’s ,  which is ambitious; nor the lawyer’s ,  which is politic; nor the lady’s ,  which is nice; nor the lover’s ,  which is all these ,  but it is a melancholy of mine own ,  compounded of many simples ,  extracted from many objects ,  and indeed the sundry contemplation of my travels ,  in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous sadness .
then you live about her waist ,  or in the middle of her favors ?
give me your hands if we be friends ,   and robin shall restore amends .
marry ,  beshrew my hand if it should give your age such cause of fear .
shall i abide in this dull world ,  which in thy absence is no better than a sty ?
yet be content.
sola, sola!
but fathers that bear bags  shall see their children kind .
so do i his .
my lord !
what friend ?
come, gentle night; come, loving, black-brow'd night; give me my romeo; and, when he shall die, take him and cut him out in little stars, and he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night and pay no worship to the garish sun.
how now shall this be compassed ?
we'll mutiny .
forever and a day .
draw ,  you rascal !
give me thy torch ,  boy .
what change is this ,  sweet love ?
most humbly therefore bending to your state ,  i crave fit disposition for my wife ,  due reference of place and exhibition ,  with such accommodation and besort as levels with her breeding .
o, help him, you sweet heavens!
thanks for that .
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men’s hands ,  and they unwashed too ,  ’tis a foul thing .
it is othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant general, that upon certain tidings now arrived, importing the mere perdition of the turkish fleet, every man put himself into triumph; some to dance, some to make bonfires, each man to what sport and revels his addiction leads him; for besides these beneficial news, it is the celebration of his nuptial.
what sadness lengthens romeo's hours?
o ,  a cherubin thou wast that did preserve me .
to who ,  my lord ? —who hath the office ?
there is no love in you .
he would drown the stage with tears and cleave the general ear with horrid speech; make mad the guilty and appal the free, confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed the very faculties of eyes and ears.
my worthy cawdor !
i am provided of a torch-bearer.
that by proscription and bills of outlawry octavius ,  antony ,  and lepidus have put to death an hundred senators .
how does my good lord hamlet?
thou desperate pilot ,  now at once run on the dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark !
now by my george ,  my garter ,  and my crown— profaned ,  dishonored ,  and the third usurped .
never so weary, never so in woe, bedabbled with the dew, and torn with briers, i can no further crawl, no further go; my legs can keep no pace with my desires.
give me some light ,  away !
peace!
i was a gentleman ,  and then i told you true .
is there no pity sitting in the clouds that sees into the bottom of my grief ?
o lord ,  lord ,  it is a hard matter for friends to meet ,  but mountains may be removed with earthquakes and so encounter .
exceedingly ,  my lord .
a tanner will last you nine year.
exchange me for a goat ,  when i shall turn the business of my soul to such exsufflicate and blown surmises ,  matching thy inference .
faith ,  that was not so well .
beshrew my heart, but i pity the man.
o ,  you give me ill counsel .
what if i strayed no further ,  but chose here ?
god give me joy to wear it ,  for my heart is exceeding heavy .
what harmony is this ?
ay ,  boy .
i do beseech you to understand my purposes aright .
have you not hurt your head?
are you at leisure ,  holy father ,  now ,  or shall i come to you at evening mass ?
for from broad words, and ’cause he fail'd his presence at the tyrant's feast, i hear, macduff lives in disgrace.
faith ,  sir ,  you need not fear .
see ,  your wife’s with him .
do not you meddle .
it shall be done, my lord.
on tuesday noon ,  or night ,  or wednesday morn .
by my brotherhood ,  the letter was not nice ,  but full of charge ,  of dear import; and the neglecting it may do much danger .
your children shall be kings .
but leave it all to god .
shall rome stand under one man's awe ?
if ever i live to see it ,  i will challenge it .
believe not so .
i will o’ertake thee ,  cleopatra ,  and weep for my pardon .
how silver-sweet sound lovers’ tongues by night, like softest music to attending ears!
you shall mark many a duteous and knee - crooking knave that (doting on his own obsequious bondage) wears out his time much like his master’s ass for naught but provender ,  and when he’s old ,  cashiered .
so many journeys may the sun and moon make us again count o'er ere love be done !
and you .
and squabble ?
go make thyself like a nymph o' th' sea .
such welcome and unwelcome things at once ’tis hard to reconcile .
rosalind of a better leer than you .
i have no will to wander forth of doors ,  yet something leads me forth .
this way ,  my lord; the castle's gently render'd .
it is a creature that i teach to fight ,  to wind ,  to stop ,  to run directly on ,  his corporal motion govern'd by my spirit .
the handkerchief !
didst thou give all to thy two daughters ,  and art thou come to this ?
yes, other men have ill luck too.
methinks i see these things with parted eye ,  when every thing seems double .
she gave it him, and he hath given it his whore.
farewell ,  my coz .
i do not know ,  my lord ,  what i should think .
oh ,  do but think you stand upon the rivage and behold a city on th' inconstant billows dancing ,  for so appears this fleet majestical holding due course to harfleur .
if circumstances lead me, i will find where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed within the centre.
why do you show me this?
alack, what trouble was i then to you!
you say you do not know the lady's mind .
what was he ,  sad or merry ?
it is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will .
o braggart vile and damnèd furious wight ,  the grave doth gape ,  and doting death is near .
out upon you!
no doubt but he hath got a quiet catch .
thy mother's poison'd .
god and our innocence defend and guard us !
bring forth the parties of suspicion .
his ceremonies laid by ,  in his nakedness he appears but a man ,  and though his affections are higher mounted than ours ,  yet when they stoop ,  they stoop with the like wing .
by your leave, hostess.
we came crying hither .
what to ourselves in passion we propose, the passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
will you mock at an ancient tradition begun upon an honorable respect and worn as a memorable trophy of predeceased valor ,  and dare not avouch in your deeds any of your words ?
call you ?
i have a strange infirmity, which is nothing to those that know me.
his bark is stoutly timber'd ,  and his pilot of very expert and approved allowance; therefore my hopes ,  not surfeited to death ,  stand in bold cure .
he hath no daughters ,  sir .
wrong i mine enemies ?
come now ,  what masques ,  what dances shall we have to wear away this long age of three hours between our after - supper and bedtime ?
tybalt is gone ,  and romeo banished; romeo that kill'd him ,  he is banished .
by my heel, i care not.
methinks it sounds a parley to provocation.
i hope you will consider what is spoke comes from my love .
upon the stroke of four .
list ,  list ,  o ,  list !
what revels are in hand ?
the funeral baked meats did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
thus then in brief: the valiant paris seeks you for his love .
i must needs tell thee all.
peace ,  smulkin .
he dares not come there for the candle .
after her ,  after her .
therefore ,  good brutus ,  be prepared to hear .
pray god ,  he keep his oath !
i have more cause .
here i am antony ,  yet cannot hold this visible shape ,  my knave .
less than an ace, man; for he is dead; he is nothing.
this only is the witchcraft i have used.
good fool ,  help me to some light and some paper .
indeed ,  indeed ,  sirs ,  but this troubles me .
tybalt ,  the reason that i have to love thee doth much excuse the appertaining rage to such a greeting .
i think that one of them is hereabout ,  and cannot make away .
when you durst do it ,  then you were a man; and ,  to be more than what you were ,  you would be so much more the man .
there comes an old man and his three sons— i could match this beginning with an old tale .
the shrill - gorged lark so far cannot be seen or heard .
yea, and my father.
well ,  may you see things well done there ,  adieu ,  lest our old robes sit easier than our new !
two of my brother’s men bound !
then move not while my prayer's effect i take .
you are as good as a chorus, my lord.
o you gods !
you need not tell us what lord hamlet said .
o treachery !
stay ,  give me drink .
call him .
i have heard your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify his rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate, and that no lawful means can carry me out of his envy's reach, i do oppose my patience to his fury; and am arm'd to suffer, with a quietness of spirit, the very tyranny and rage of his.
oh ,  she was heavenly true !
they are .
i to the world am like a drop of water that in the ocean seeks another drop ,  who ,  falling there to find his fellow forth ,  unseen ,  inquisitive ,  confounds himself .
a very pleasing night to honest men.
come ,  sir ,  you peevishly threw it to her ,  and her will is it should be so returned .
or else she could not have the wit to do this .
michael, good night.
thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot ,  wherein i thee endowed .
note if your lady strain his entertainment
murder !
wherefore speaks he this to her he hates?
so, by my former lecture and advice, shall you my son.
and after this let caesar seat him sure; for we will shake him ,  or worse days endure .
no, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door; but 'tis enough, 'twill serve.
what say'st thou to me now ?
neither my husband nor the slave returned that in such haste i sent to seek his master ?
cleopatra ,  do not abuse my master’s bounty by th’ undoing of yourself .
to gonzalo] first ,  noble friend ,  [to gonzalo] first ,  noble friend ,  let me embrace thine age ,  whose honour cannot be measured or confined .
why ,  then you must .
by cheshu ,  he is an ass ,  as in the world .
let him fly far .
an englishman ?
again !
talkest thou nothing but of ladies ?
o, blood, blood, blood!
and having brought our treasure where we will ,  then take we down his load and turn him off ,  like to the empty ass ,  to shake his ears and graze in commons .
to sebastian] true, of that there's none, or little.
if this be so ,  why blame you me to love you ?
i know what reason i have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad ,  i would divorce me from thy mother’s tomb ,  sepulchring an adultress .
relent, sweet hermia; and, lysander, yield thy crazed title to my certain right.
marry ,  thou dost wrong me ,  thou dissembler ,  thou .
ay ,  he was porn at monmouth ,  captain gower .
we’ll mutiny .
o, a thousand, a thousand times.
there is a brief how many sports are ripe; make choice of which your highness will see first .
o heaven !
then does he say he lent me some shipping ,  unrestored .
here hung those lips that i have kissed i know not how oft .
sir ,  being his knave ,  i will .
where’s potpan ,  that he helps not to take away ?
if you will not ,  come when you are next prepared for .
the king ,  sir— ay ,  sir ,  what of him ?
therefore my son i'th’ ooze is bedded, and i'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded, and with him there lie mudded.
good.
say that you love me not ,  but say not so in bitterness .
would i could answer this comfort with the like!
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble .
pardon me ,  good lady; for ,  by these blessed candles of the night ,  had you been there ,  i think ,  you would have begg'd the ring of me to give the worthy doctor .
even so ,  lucilius .
and do you now put on your best attire ?
i like you lads .
and yet it is almost against my conscience.
then ’tis he: the rest that are within the note of expectation already are i’ the court.
by god's sonties ,  'twill be a hard way to hit .
therefore farewell .
caesar ,  and that ,  having in sicily sextus pompeius spoiled ,  we had not rated him his part o’ th’ isle .
the duke and senators of venice greet you.
i pray thee ,  understand a plain man in his plain meaning; go to thy fellows; bid them cover the table ,  serve in the meat ,  and we will come in to dinner .
stay ,  fellow .
you come with letters against the king and take vanity the puppet’s part against the royalty of her father .
here’s the friar ready .
now to you .
the scripture says adam digged .
wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant?
look in upon me then, and speak with me, or, naked as i am, i will assault thee.
o ,  a thousand ,  a thousand times .
the moon, methinks, looks with a watery eye; and when she weeps, weeps every little flower; lamenting some enforced chastity.
o, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
prithee ,  nuncle ,  be contented .
thy drugs are quick .
had he not resembled my father as he slept ,  i had done't .
it was my duty ,  sir .
now i’ll tell you without asking .
good day and happiness ,  dear rosalind .
signior antonio ,  many a time and oft ,  in the rialto you have rated me about my moneys ,  and my usances: still have i borne it with a patient shrug ,  for sufferance is the badge of all our tribe: you call me , —misbeliever ,  cut - throat dog ,  and spet upon my jewish gaberdine ,  and all for use of that which is mine own .
know you not he has ?
was that my father that went hence so fast?
marry, well said, very well said.
i cannot go no further .
you'll be the man!
no ,  let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp ,  and crook the pregnant hinges of the knee where thrift may follow fawning .
tomorrow with your earliest let me have speech with you . — come ,  my dear love ,  the purchase made ,  the fruits are to ensue: that profit’s yet to come ’tween me and you .
you shall close prisoner rest ,  till that the nature of your fault be known to the venetian state .
what ,  will the line stretch out to the crack of doom ?
not till god make men of some other metal than earth .
i will go with thee .
you did .
i have two nights watched with you, but can perceive no truth in your report.
if i did think, sir, i were well awake i'd strive to tell you.
is it so nominated in the bond ?
thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
think you so ?
i’ll none of it .
what mean'st thou by that ?
if you call me jephthah, my lord, i have a daughter that i love passing well.
out ,  cur !
wast thou with rosaline ?
i come but in as others do ,  to try with him the strength of my youth .
i shall laugh myself to death at this puppy - headed monster .
what is your will that i shall do with this ?
a pack of blessings light upon thy back ,  happiness courts thee in her best array ,
i have a daughter ,  sir ,  called katherina .
i cannot think it .
if she find him not ,  to england send him or confine him where your wisdom best shall think .
madam my interpreter ,  what says she ?
not one ,  my lord .
this hill is far enough.
and all for nothing— for hecuba !
for i am sure mine nails are stronger than mine eyes .
were such things here as we do speak about ?
how now ,  my love !
why, 'tis found so.
this afternoon ,  sir ?
will you come to bed ,  my lord ?
he is descried .
my lord ,  i will not .
well ,  well ,  we shall thrive now . —seest thou ,  my good fellow ?
i gave thee mine before thou didst request it; and yet i would it were to give again .
it is the most impenetrable cur that ever kept with men .
maud ,  bridget ,  marian ,  ciceley ,  gillian ,  ginn !
concerning this ,  sir—o well - painted passion ! — i am commanded home .
therefore ,  patiently and yielding .
if i could add a lie unto a fault ,  i would deny it; but you see ,  my finger hath not the ring upon it ,  it is gone .
in a town of war, yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear, to manage private and domestic quarrel, in night, and on the court and guard of safety!
i am sorry that your leisure serves you not .
where should she be?
our reasons are so full of good regard that were you ,  antony ,  the son of caesar ,  you should be satisfied .
why ,  then ,  we kill all our women .
ay ,  thou poor ghost ,  whiles memory holds a seat in this distracted globe .
caesar himself has work ,  and our oppression exceeds what we expected .
lady ,  shall i lie in your lap ?
do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
ay, that's a colt, indeed, for he doth nothing but talk of his horse; and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts that he can shoe him himself: i am much afraid my lady his mother played false with a smith.
what devil was't that thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
and, noble signior, if virtue no delighted beauty lack, your son-in-law is far more fair than black.
o that my prayers could such affection move !
adieu .
in my schooldays, when i had lost one shaft, i shot his fellow of the self-same flight the self-same way, with more advised watch, to find the other forth; and by adventuring both i oft found both: i urge this childhood proof, because what follows is pure innocence.
o monstrous ,  monstrous !
i see thee still, and on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood, which was not so before.
no .
throw this slave upon the dunghill . —regan ,  i bleed apace .
freedom high - day !
no .
now quit you well . —             torches ,  torches !
wherefore have these gifts a curtain before 'em ?
oh ,  widow dido ?
but either it was different in blood—
am i not wise ?
let thy blood and spirit embrace them .
who, being more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind, knows me not: i will try confusions with him.
my gentleman ,  cesario ?
laertes ,  was your father dear to you ?
pardon ,  my lord .
will all great neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hand?
this do i drink to thee.
a noise of thunder heard] [a noise of thunder heard] his spirits hear me, and yet i needs must curse.
is it good - den ?
what is your tidings ?
hence ,  mardian ,  and bring me how he takes my death .
i have made strong proof of my constancy ,  giving myself a voluntary wound here in the thigh .
metellus cimber?
hamlet .  ”  this in obedience hath my daughter shown me ,  and more above ,  hath his solicitings ,  as they fell out by time ,  by means ,  and place ,  all given to mine ear .
i wot well where he is.
where hast thou been ,  sister ?
o masters ,  if i were disposed to stir your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage ,  i should do brutus wrong ,  and cassius wrong— who ,  you all know ,  are honorable men .
o woeful ,  woeful ,  woeful day !
i have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed .
give me another horse !
there were none principal .
thou sayest his sports were hinderd by thy brawls .
what mean these masterless and gory swords to lie discolour'd by this place of peace ?
how many gentlemen have you lost in this action ?
do you question me as an honest man should do ,  for my simple true judgment ?
love’s heralds should be thoughts ,  which ten times faster glide than the sun’s beams ,  driving back shadows over louring hills .
this is a knavery of them to make me afeard.
our troops set forth tomorrow .
plucking the entrails of an offering forth ,  they could not find a heart within the beast .
can anything be made of this ?
simple ,  plain clarence ,  i do love thee so that i will shortly send thy soul to heaven ,  if heaven will take the present at our hands .
what conquest brings he home ?
it was ,  so please your highness .
sayest thou that house is dark ?
you may do your will ,  but he’s a tried and valiant soldier .
in the same figure ,  like the king that's dead .
ay ,  marry ,  is ’t .
nothing ,  my lord ,  or if—i know not what .
no further ,  sir .
where is our usual manager of mirth ?
there’s no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature .
here ,  my lord .
our time does call upon's .
the one of them contains my picture ,  prince; if you choose that ,  then i am yours withal .
unreal mockery ,  hence !
sir ,  sir ,  sir—
adultery ?
you shall not go ,  my lord .
marked you not how that the guilty kindred of the queen looked pale when they did hear of clarence' death ?
as the time ,  the place ,  and the condition of this country stands ,  i could heartily wish this had not befallen; but since it is as it is ,  mend it for your own good .
why, now i see there's mettle in thee; and even from this instant do build on thee a better opinion than ever before.
i think we are too bold upon your rest .
my purposes do draw me much about .
o ,  the kindest kate !
meantime god grants that we have need of you .
upon a lie seven times removed . —bear your body more seeming ,  audrey . —as thus ,  sir: i did dislike the cut of a certain courtier’s beard .
that’s sides and heart .
in troth ,  i think i should ,  and undo ’t when i had done .
indeed !
why ,  sir ,  you know this is your wedding day .
o most bloody sight !
he is the general challenger .
for half thy wealth ,  it is antonio’s .
let pride ,  which she calls plainness ,  marry her .
he is gone, he is gone, and we cast away moan.
and even for that do i love you the more .
very well .
did not great julius bleed for justice' sake?
some that will evermore peep through their eyes and laugh like parrots at a bagpiper ,  and other of such vinegar aspect that they’ll not show their teeth in way of smile though nestor swear the jest be laughable .
the gods best know—                                              oh never was there queen so mightily betrayed !
oh my fair warrior !
signior ?
but as i think—for truly would i speak ,  and now do i bethink me ,  so it is— i came with hermia hither .
this a good block .
either withdraw unto some private place ,  and reason coldly of your grievances ,  or else depart .
myself have letters of the selfsame tenure.
o ,  she is ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed ,  and he's composed of harshness .
what villain, madam?
you’ll cry for this ,  minion ,  if i beat the door down .
most villanously ,  like a pedant that keeps a school i' the church .
god’s bread !
angels and ministers of grace defend us !
but who is here ?
peace !
the children live whose fathers thou hast slaughtered ,  ungoverned youth ,  to wail it in their age; the parents live whose children thou hast butchered ,  old barren plants ,  to wail it with their age .
and died so ?
how i have thought of this and of these times i shall recount hereafter .
nor in thine ,  lord .
or i'll cry a match .
bring me to octavius .
it is engender'd.
so let him land ,  and solemnly see him set on to london .
why should you think that i should woo in scorn ?
but now i'll tell thee joyful tidings ,  girl .
i will not take her on gift of any man .
read the will; we'll hear it, antony.
why, now you speak like a good child and a true gentleman.
and speak ’t again ,  my lord .
good night ,  lord brutus .
the prince will doom thee death if thou art taken.
i shall serve you ,  sir ,  truly ,  however else .
they are all welcome.
thanks, dear my lord.
welcome, horatio.
the king will be gone from southampton .
royal queen !
are your doors lock'd ?
in parthia did i take thee prisoner, and then i swore thee, saving of thy life, that whatsoever i did bid thee do, thou shouldst attempt it.
it is a wise father that knows his own child .
good my lord ,  tell it .
this weaves itself perforce into my business .
now i change my mind, and partly credit things that do presage.
three of the carriages ,  in faith ,  are very dear to fancy ,  very responsive to the hilts ,  most delicate carriages ,  and of very liberal conceit .
to every article .
of her society be not afraid.
hath not else his eye stray’d his affection in unlawful love ,  a sin prevailing much in youthful men who give their eyes the liberty of gazing ?
come, love and health to all; then i'll sit down.
but silence; here comes thisbe.
i thank thee ,  good tubal .
i have done no more to caesar than you shall do to brutus.
why ,  she defies me like turk to christian .
o, hardness to dissemble!
well ,  sir .
what ,  so brief ?
i did not think he had been acquainted with her.
do it, england; for like the hectic in my blood he rages, and thou must cure me.
so that, dear lords, if i be left behind, a moth of peace, and he go to the war, the rites for which i love him are bereft me, and i a heavy interim shall support by his dear absence.
i owe you none till i receive the chain .
how do you, desdemona?
but was not this nigh shore ?
you shall advise me in all for cleopatra .
nurse ?
michael cassio ,  lieutenant to the warlike moor othello ,  is come on shore .
caius ligarius doth bear caesar hard ,  who rated him for speaking well of pompey .
what woman then?
ay ,  marry ,  wast ,  and he put it by thrice ,  every time gentler than other ,  and at every putting by mine honest neighbors shouted .
and hippolyta.
alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip?
god mark thee to his grace!
afore me ,  it is so very very late that we may call it early by - and - by .
what do you mean ?
that now sweno ,  the norways’ king ,  craves composition; nor would we deign him burial of his men till he disbursed ,  at saint colme's inch ,  ten thousand dollars to our general use .
let them come in.
what wert thou if the king of naples heard thee ?
for me ,  that i may surely keep mine oath ,  i will be married to a wealthy widow ,  ere three days pass ,  which hath as long loved me as i have loved this proud disdainful haggard .
twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
your brother is but young and tender ,  and ,  for your love i would be loath to foil him ,  as i must for my own honor if he come in .
very well .
and then ?
the lunatic ,  the lover ,  and the poet ,  are of imagination all compact .
in the secret parts of fortune?
stephano !
yes ,  sooth ,  and so do you .
tybalt ,  the kinsman to old capulet ,  hath sent a letter to his father’s house .
do you perceive in all this noble company where most you owe obedience ?
i hear some noise within .
o fortune ,  fortune !
ere it be demanded ,  as like enough it will ,  i would have it copied .
faith, here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale, who committed treason enough for god's sake, yet could not equivocate to heaven.
i am more proud to be sir rowland’s son ,  his youngest son ,  and would not change that calling to be adopted heir to frederick .
pray ,  set it down and rest you .
thou art sensible in nothing but blows ,  and so is an ass .
if there be truth in sight ,  you are my rosalind .
o monstrous act!
whereon do you look?
come .
o lord !
never ,  iago .
we must be patient .
if that the turkish fleet be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd; it is impossible to bear it out.
it is silliness to live when to live is torment ,  and then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician .
no .
but yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion .
an your ladyship will have it as it ought to be ,  you must allow  prithee ,  read i' thy right wits .
and then, of so gentle a condition!
what should such fellows as i do crawling between earth and heaven ?
sweet bodements ,  good !
indeed ,  it is a strange - disposèd time .
what ,  shall i be appointed hours as though ,  belike ,  i knew not what to take and what to leave ,  ha ?
at my poor house look to behold this night earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light.
he took my father grossly, full of bread, with all his crimes broad blown, as flush as may; and how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
good gentlemen ,  give him a further edge ,  and drive his purpose on to these delights .
demetrius ,  i will keep my word with thee .
tis so .
where joy most revels ,  grief doth most lament; grief joys ,  joy grieves ,  on slender accident .
it is not lost; but what an if it were?
is this the madman ?
tubal ,  a wealthy hebrew of my tribe ,  will furnish me .
murder!
yonder sure they are coming .
it is gone .
i must be one of these same dumb wise men ,  for gratiano never lets me speak .
he's that he is .
an you be mine ,  i’ll give you to my friend .
do not torment me .
no ,  cassio is not kill'd .
i would not for the wealth of all the town here in my house do him disparagement .
why ,  farewell ,  portia .
prithee ,  peace .
out on thee ,  seeming !
and the rarest that e'er came there .
you heard her say herself it was not i .
how do you, pretty lady?
sir ,  octavius is already come to rome .
the sea ,  with such a storm as his bare head in hell - black night endured ,  would have buoyed up ,  and quenched the stellèd fires .
ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us chase.
you shall try but one fall .
he would not take the crown .
to a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
and take good note what caesar doth ,  what suitors press to him .
awake, i say!
marcus luccicos ,  is not he in town ?
so humbly take my leave .
why, shall we turn to men?
and discourse fustian with one's own shadow ?
i’ll tell thee ,  aliena ,  i cannot be out of the sight of orlando .
not having that ,  which ,  having ,  makes them short .
good husband ,  come home presently .
o, a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet.
what ,  can the devil speak true ?
spread thy close curtain ,  love - performing night ,  that runaway eyes may wink ,  and romeo leap to these arms untalk'd of and unseen .
we’ll so begin these rites as we do trust they’ll end ,  in true delights .
therefore our everlasting farewell take .
dishonor not your mothers .
if our sport had gone forward ,  we had all been made men .
sir ,  are not you my father ?
why are you drawn ?
what is the matter?
mislike me not for my complexion ,  the shadowed livery of the burnish'd sun ,  to whom i am a neighbour ,  and near bred .
out ,  i say !
and for his dreams ,  i wonder he’s so simple to trust the mock'ry of unquiet slumbers .
all is the fear and nothing is the love ,  as little is the wisdom ,  where the flight so runs against all reason .
you may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar .
mark antony , — pardon me ,  caius cassius .
what’s this to my lysander ?
i found it thrown in at the casement of my closet .
dost know this water-fly?
wrench his sword from him.
those that macbeth hath slain.
make those that do offend you suffer too .
away !
woe, alas!
fie, fie upon thee, strumpet!
then will i give you the serving-creature.
think upon what hath chanced, and at more time, the interim having weigh'd it, let us speak our free hearts each to other.
i do but beg a little changeling boy ,  to be my henchman .
into my grave .
ay ,  and wisely .
march on ,  march on ,  since we are up in arms ,  if not to fight with foreign enemies ,  yet to beat down these rebels here at home .
wherefore was that cry ?
how parted he with thee ?
he says his name is master fer .
and in this brainish apprehension kills the unseen good old man.
i have deceived even your very eyes .
ready .
are they  “ informed ”  of this ?
what do i see on thee ?
the more my prayer ,  the lesser is my grace .
you may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.
tell him my fury shall abate ,  and i the crowns will take .
how oddly he is suited !
run to the capulets .
now, ere the sun advance his burning eye the day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry, i must up-fill this osier cage of ours with baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
i durst have denied that before you were so choleric .
tis late.
he speaks well.
o ,  i see that nose of yours ,  but not that dog i shall throw it to .
take not the quarrel from his powerful arm; he needs no indirect or lawless course to cut off those that have offended him .
no.
but montague is bound as well as i ,  in penalty alike; and 'tis not hard ,  i think ,  for men so old as we to keep the peace .
this might be the pate of a politician ,  which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent god ,  might it not ?
oh ,  ho ,  monster ,  we know what belongs to a frippery . —   put off that gown ,  trinculo .
i will on with my speech in your praise and then show you the heart of my message .
what!
i heard him say ,  brutus and cassius are rid like madmen through the gates of rome .
go ,  pindarus ,  get higher on that hill .
my sight was ever thick .
wert thou not banishèd on pain of death ?
you come most carefully upon your hour .
sir ,  the gods will have it thus .
i have been in such a pickle since i saw you last that ,  i fear me ,  will never out of my bones .
and my heart too .
the higher nilus swells the more it promises .
i shall never see my gold again .
where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
you love me not .
where is my lord?
fie on her !
why dost thou stay?
tomorrow we'll hear ourselves again .
i will help you to ’t .
foul ,  wrinkled witch ,  what mak’st thou in my sight ?
your reproof is something too round .
no; we shall ne'er win at that sport ,  and stake down .
good friends ,  sweet friends ,  let me not stir you up to such a sudden flood of mutiny .
thy master is a wise and valiant roman; i never thought him worse.
but make amends now .
and what have i to give you back whose worth may counterpoise this rich and precious gift ?
my soul ,  and not my child !
what, removed?
it droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven upon the place beneath .
if he come not ,  then the play is marred .
i look down towards his feet; but that's a fable.
o ,  be thou damn'd ,  inexecrable dog !
grave sir ,  hail !
i was forbid it .
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts shall be to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida .
twere good you do so much for charity.
and that i am he let me a little show it even in this: that i was constant cimber should be banished ,  and constant do remain to keep him so .
but pardon me .
yet thou didst kill my children .
why ,  so i did .
here the street is narrow .
when they shall see the face of caesar ,  they are vanishèd .
bloody, bawdy villain!
she loved me for the dangers i had passed ,  and i loved her that she did pity them .
are not you moved ,  when all the sway of earth shakes like a thing unfirm ?
to leave his wife ,  to leave his babes ,  his mansion and his titles in a place from whence himself does fly ?
there, my blessing with thee.
then crush this herb into lysander's eye; whose liquor hath this virtuous property, to take from thence all error with his might and make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.
why ,  sweet othello—   i have not deserved this .
ye say honestly.
follow me, then, to plainer ground.
i will, my lord.
strike !
prithee ,  away .
so shall you feel the loss, but not the friend which you weep for.
i assure you ,  carthage .
every day thou daffest me with some device ,  iago; and rather ,  as it seems to me now ,  keepest from me all conve -  niency than suppliest me with the least advantage of hope .
such welcome and unwelcome things at once 'tis hard to reconcile .
all torment, trouble, wonder, and amazement inhabits here.
sometimes a thousand twangling instruments will hum about mine ears, and sometime voices that, if i then had waked after long sleep, will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming, the clouds methought would open and show riches ready to drop upon me, that when i waked i cried to dream again.
their sense thus weak ,  lost with their fears thus strong ,  made senseless things begin to do them wrong ,  for briers and thorns at their apparel snatch; some sleeves ,  some hats ,  from yielders all things catch .
welcome, gentlemen!
the fearful passage of their death - marked love and the continuance of their parents' rage ,  which ,  but their children’s end ,  naught could remove ,  is now the two hours' traffic of our stage— the which ,  if you with patient ears attend ,  what here shall miss ,  our toil shall strive to mend .
if they do this ,  as ,  if god please ,  they shall ,  my ransom then will soon be levied .
tis strange .
how say'st thou ,  that macduff denies his person at our great bidding ?
i'll believe as soon this whole earth may be bored, and that the moon may through the centre creep and so displease her brother's noontide with the antipodes.
where did you leave him ?
come ,  cassius' sword ,  and find titinius' heart .
he hath ,  my lord; but be you well assured ,  no more than he'll unswear .
hence ,  saucy eunuch !
revenges burn in them ,  for their dear causes would to the bleeding and the grim alarm excite the mortified man .
but i will not stir from this place ,  do what they can .
marry, now i can tell!
one ?
wake her not .
i had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partisan i could not heave .
sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, i know, to divide him inventorially would dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw neither, in respect of his quick sail.
the fair ophelia !
tis strange, my theseus, that these lovers speak of.
oh ,  falsely ,  falsely murdered !
where i have come ,  great clerks have purposèd to greet me with premeditated welcomes ,  where i have seen them shiver and look pale ,  make periods in the midst of sentences ,  throttle their practiced accent in their fears ,  and in conclusion dumbly have broke off ,  not paying me a welcome .
how may the duke be therewith satisfied ,  whose messengers are here about my side ,  upon some present business of the state to bring me to him ?
come on ,  sir knave ,  have done your foolishness ,  and tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge .
hortensio ,  to what end are all these words ?
now ,  for my life ,  she’s wandering to the tower ,  on pure heart’s love ,  to greet the tender prince . — daughter ,  well met .
for doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
how?
look !
and so am i revenged . —that would be scanned .
o me!
did my heart love till now ?
full of vexation come i with complaint against my child ,  my daughter hermia . — stand forth ,  demetrius . —my noble lord ,  this man hath my consent to marry her . — stand forth ,  lysander . —and my gracious duke ,  this man hath bewitched the bosom of my child . — thou ,  thou ,  lysander ,  thou hast given her rhymes ,  and interchanged love tokens with my child .
you do extend these thoughts of horror further than you shall find cause in caesar .
caesar ,  i shall .
my lord ?
i have had a most rare vision .
oh ,  ’twill be admirable !
here’s packing ,  with a witness ,  to deceive us all !
the emperor calls canidius .
good night .
saint valentine is past; begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
safe in a ditch he bides ,  with twenty trenchèd gashes on his head ,  the least a death to nature .
and mine shall .
come ,  let us to the castle .
wherefore is this ?
i have it ,  and soundly too .
my lord sebastian ,  the truth you speak doth lack some gentleness and time to speak it in—you rub the sore ,  when you should bring the plaster .
i wonder at it .
brutus ,  my country’s friend .
honest ,  my lord ?
what antony shall speak ,  i will protest he speaks by leave and by permission ,  and that we are contented caesar shall have all true rites and lawful ceremonies .
hide it in smiles and affability .
how long is it now to lammastide ?
you might have come before .
i do not understand.
alack ,  there lies more peril in thine eye than twenty of their swords !
if this prove a vision of the island ,  one dear son shall i twice lose .
what then ?
why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, osric.
my suit to her is that she will to virtuous desdemona procure me some access .
come ,  come ,  nerissa; for i long to see quick cupid's post that comes so mannerly .
from this moment the very firstlings of my heart shall be the firstlings of my hand.
this is no answer ,  thou unfeeling man ,  to excuse the current of thy cruelty .
hence ,  prating peasant !
so ho!
it was the owl that shriek'd ,  the fatal bellman ,  which gives the stern'st good - night .
how sound is she asleep !
whisper her ear and tell her i and ursula walk in the orchard ,  and our whole discourse is all of her .
what news ?
my husband say that she was false !
what noise is here ?
have you writ down that they are none ?
the sorrow that i have by right is yours ,  and all the pleasures you usurp are mine .
what news?
hortensio ,  hark .
my ships come home a month before the day .
i’ll serve you ,  sir ,  five hundred at the rate .
brutus speaks .
damned as thou art ,  thou hast enchanted her !
marry ,  sir ,  in her buttocks .
bear it straight ,  and bring thy master home immediately .
i dare ,  and do defy thee for a villain .
ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes and groves, and ye that on the sands with printless foot do chase the ebbing neptune and do fly him when he comes back; you demi-puppets that by moonshine do the green sour ringlets make, whereof the ewe not bites, and you whose pastime is to make midnight mushrooms, that rejoice to hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid, weak masters though ye be, i have bedimmed the noontide sun, called forth the mutinous winds, and ’twixt the green sea and the azured vault set roaring war—to the dread rattling thunder have i given fire, and rifted jove's stout oak with his own bolt; the strong-based promontory have i made shake, and by the spurs plucked up the pine and cedar: graves at my command have waked their sleepers, oped, and let ’em forth by my so potent art.
you have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting, with most admired disorder.
that is he .
hear me ,  good brother .
because that ,  like a jack ,  thou keep’st the stroke betwixt thy begging and my meditation .
hast thou not dropped from heaven?
oh ,  come apace ,  dispatch !
what ,  are you mad ?
well ,  as you guess ?
good mercutio!
your names ?
i will verify as much in his beard .
it is a great price for a small vice .
when truth kills truth, o devilish-holy fray!
by heaven ,  that should be my handkerchief !
what is my name ?
how long is that since?
there ,  drink that for me .
are there balance here to weigh the flesh?
calphurnia !
tomorrow or next day they will be here .
the usurer hangs the cozener .
is ’t true ,  is ’t true ?
let’s meet as little as we can .
follow that lord ,  and look you mock him not .
dear kate ,  you and i cannot be confined within the weak list of a country’s fashion .
o brave touch !
if it be love indeed ,  tell me how much .
give me some music .
what hands are here ?
for if she be not honest ,  chaste ,  and true ,  there's no man happy; the purest of their wives is foul as slander .
nay, i am sure it is, volumnius.
wherefore rejoice ?
o jephthah, judge of israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
what noise is this?
goes the king hence today ?
but if you do ,  sir ,  i am for you .
searching the window for a flint i found this paper thus seal'd up ,  and i am sure it did not lie there when i went to bed .
ay ,  sooth; so humbled ,  that he hath left part of his grief with me ,  to suffer with him .
will it give place to flexure and low bending ?
my lord, we must entreat the time alone.
murder ,  murder !
look where she comes.
thou but rememberest me of mine own conception .
the voice of cassio .
my lord, he hath importuned me with love in honourable fashion.
and for three months.
o ,  she that might have intercepted thee ,  by strangling thee in her accursèd womb ,  from all the slaughters ,  wretch ,  that thou hast done .
my husband lives, that tybalt would have slain; and tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband.
alas ,  my liege ,  my wife is dead tonight .
will you go ,  sister ? —shepherd ,  ply her hard .
carry him gently to my fairest chamber and hang it round with all my wanton pictures .
most heathenish and most gross !
it makes us ,  or it mars us; think on that ,  and fix most firm thy resolution .
well ,  god 'eild you !
injurious hermia!
do not say so ,  lysander .
what ?
so get you hence in peace .
if he filled his vacancy with his voluptuousness ,  full surfeits and the dryness of his bones call on him for ’t .
and what says my conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love ?
if i dream not ,  thou art emilia .
draw ,  you rascal .
if i could bid the fifth welcome with so good a heart as i can bid the other four farewell, i should be glad of his approach: if he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil, i had rather he should shrive me than wive me.
let copulation thrive ,  for gloucester’s bastard son was kinder to his father than my daughters got ’tween the lawful sheets .
i rather tell thee what is to be fear'd than what i fear, for always i am caesar.
you shall have leave .
what’s the matter with thee now ?
the citizens are up ,  and tybalt slain .
come on ,  sir .
he and lepidus are at caesar's house .
it is clean out of the way .
why, lady!
o cassio ,  cassio ,  cassio !
i'll send a friar with speed to mantua ,  with my letters to thy lord .
it is no matter .
moth !
is he come ?
a grievous fault . —say ,  woman ,  didst thou so ?
come ,  i will give you way for these your letters ,  and do't the speedier that you may direct me to him from whom you brought them .
let him send no more— unless perchance you come to me again to tell me how he takes it .
a fair woman !
now go to the door and stay there till we call .
benedicite .
you would lift the moon out of her sphere if she would continue in it five weeks without changing .
conception is a blessing ,  but not as your daughter may conceive .
he has heard that word of some great man and now applies it to a fool .
thou speakest aright: i am that merry wanderer of the night .
why ,  so .
here comes your father.
he lies not like the living.
madam ,  i trust ,  not so .
this is the man .
cassio shall have my place.
see ,  it stalks away !
i remember .
is this face hero’s ?
write from us to him, postposthaste dispatch.
show me ,  show me .
tis pity of him .
now will he sit under a medlar tree and wish his mistress were that kind of fruit as maids call medlars when they laugh alone . — o romeo ,  that she were !
but come at once; for the close night doth play the run-away, and we are stay'd for at bassanio's feast.
my husband !
by heaven, i rather would have been his hangman.
ay, ay!
crack thy frail case ! —apace ,  eros ,  apace .
how oft when men are at the point of death have they been merry !
hear antony .
the throng that follows caesar at the heels ,  of senators ,  of praetors ,  common suitors ,  will crowd a feeble man almost to death .
let th’ egyptians and the phoenicians go a - ducking .
here comes two of the banished duke’s pages .
so shall i ,  love ,  and so ,  i pray ,  be you .
you are wel -  come to elsinore .
had you been as wise as bold ,  young in limbs ,  in judgment old ,  your answer had not been inscrolled .
twas a sweet marriage ,  and we prosper well in our return .
why dost thou ask?
i beseech you .
misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows .
sit then and talk with her .
i am in this commanded to deliver the noble duke of clarence to your hands .
happy the parents of so fair a child .
stay ,  on thy peril .
what are they that do play it ?
with his own bolt;     the strong - based promontory have i made shake ,  and by the spurs plucked up the pine and cedar; graves at my command have waked their sleepers ,  oped ,  and let 'em forth by my so potent art .
mass ,  i cannot tell .
our brother is imprisoned by your means ,  myself disgraced ,  and the nobility held in contempt ,  while great promotions are daily given to ennoble those that scarce some two days since were worth a noble .
one kiss, and i'll descend.
we are yet but young in deed .
interrupt the monster one word further ,  and ,  by this hand ,  i’ll turn my mercy out o' doors and make a stockfish of thee .
come hither ,  knight .
have you forgot me ?
i would not for the world they saw thee here.
observe her; stand close.
by heaven, i do not, i do not, gentlemen.
and were the king on ’t ,  what would i do ?
i have used thee, filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee in mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate the honour of my child.
stand ,  ho !
unfold it .
no ,  as i shall be saved .
beshrew your eyes, they have o'erlook'd me, and divided me; one half of me is yours, the other half yours,— mine own, i would say; but if mine, then yours, and so, all yours: o!
joy, gentle friends, joy and fresh days of love accompany your hearts!
up, up, and see the great doom's image!
what ,  man !
why ,  how now ,  stephano ?
ay, while you live, draw your neck out of the collar.
there ,  take it ,  prince .
judge, o you gods, how dearly caesar loved him!
but i prattle something too wildly, and my father's precepts i therein do forget.
pass .
tis two or three ,  my lord ,  that bring you word macduff is fled to england .
but how ,  but how ?
go make you ready.
how like a fawning publican he looks!
ay me ,  what news ?
the motions of his spirit are dull as night ,  and his affections dark as erebus .
neglected ,  rather ,  and then when poisoned hours had bound me up from mine own knowledge .
signior gratiano?
oh ,  here it is .
portia ,  what mean you ?
what storm is this that blows so contrary?
damn them then, if ever mortal eyes do see them bolster more than their own!
wilt thou ,  silvius ?
what's the matter, lieutenant?
here comes one.
he is not here ,  so please your lordship ,  that should sing it .
i’ll not expostulate with her ,  lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again—this night ,  iago !
then saw you not his face ?
pluck but his name out of his heart and turn him going .
fair beatrice ,  i thank you for your pains .
then by your side no bed-room me deny, for lying so, hermia, i do not lie.
must i bouge?
may ’t please your highness sit .
do you not see that i am out of breath ?
no boasting like a fool .
woe ,  alas !
tomorrow dinner ,  then ?
thou speak’st wiser than thou art ware of .
o desdemon!
let me be satisfied .
heaven me such uses send ,  not to pick bad from bad ,  but by bad mend !
good morrow ,  father .
mine ear ,  i thank it ,  brought me to thy sound but why unkindly didst thou leave me so ?
why ,  this is an arrant counterfeit rascal .
what ,  brutus ?
that we shall die ,  we know; 'tis but the time and drawing days out that men stand upon .
stand, ho!
that cannot be: his ring i do accept most thankfully, and so, i pray you, tell him: furthermore, i pray you, show my youth old shylock's house.
he was not born to shame .
i beseech thee ,  youth ,  put not another sin upon my head by urging me to fury .
they told me i was everything .
anon ,  anon !
an earnest conjuration from the king ,  as england was his faithful tributary ,  as love between them like the palm might flourish ,  as peace should still her wheaten garland wear and stand a comma 'tween their amities ,  and many such like as's of great charge ,  that on the view and knowing of these contents ,  without debatement further ,  more or less ,  he should the bearers put to sudden death ,  not shriving - time allow'd .
is ’t possible ?
o perjured woman !
time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine nor age so eat up my invention nor fortune made such havoc of my means nor my bad life reft me so much of friends but they shall find ,  awaked in such a kind ,  both strength of limb and policy of mind ,  ability in means and choice of friends ,  to quit me of them throughly .
demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.
i'll do't.
now the condition .
what are you there ?
no matter.
what is thy soul of adoration ?
what is it else ?
i'll make you quiet; what ! —cheerly ,  my hearts !
i will ,  my lord .
good sir ,  this ring was given me by my wife; and ,  when she put it on ,  she made me vow that i should neither sell ,  nor give ,  nor lose it .
three in egypt cannot make better note .
what beast was't then that made you break this enterprise to me?
our hour  is fully out .
the tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
hence  “ banishèd ”  is banished from the world ,  and world’s exile is death .
have done ,  have done .
you slave ,  you cur !
most welcome home !
an old hare hoar ,  and an old hare hoar ,  is very good meat in lent; but a hare that is hoar is too much for a score when it hoars ere it be spent .
what news abroad ?
he hath been most notoriously abused .
i am the youngest of that name ,  for fault of a worse .
come one more; two of both kinds makes up four.
i have known her continue in this a quarter of an hour .
take up the bodies.
did i not bid thee meet me in the park and bring along these rascal knaves with thee ?
o these deliberate fools !
spit ,  fire !
i owe you much; and, like a wilful youth, that which i owe is lost: but if you please to shoot another arrow that self way which you did shoot the first, i do not doubt, as i will watch the aim, or to find both, or bring your latter hazard back again, and thankfully rest debtor for the first.
to tell you true ,  i counterfeit him .
come ,  come; you'll never meet a more sufficient man .
i have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
go ,  go .
time ,  thou the flighty purpose never is o'ertook unless the deed go with it .
i dare draw as soon as another man ,  if i see occasion in a good quarrel ,  and the law on my side .
you look angerly .
i fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old ,  being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth .
that will i make before i let thee go .
o cassius ,  if you could but win the noble brutus to our party— be you content .
oh ,  excellent !
she is of so free ,  so kind ,  so apt ,  so blessed a disposition ,  she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested .
my letters say a hundred and seven galleys .
save you ,  friend cassio !
tis such another fitchew!
i'll be with you straight .
i deny it not .
give me that man that is not passion's slave, and i will wear him in my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart, as i do thee.
are my deserts no better?
bring me the fairest creature northward born, where phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles, and let us make incision for your love, to prove whose blood is reddest, his, or mine.
oh ,  ho !
would it not make one weep?
she has light by her continually; ’tis her command .
o ,  help him ,  you sweet heavens !
what is the news?
bid me farewell .
how now ,  lady ?
go ,  get thee to thy love ,  as was decreed .
why ,  now i see there’s mettle in thee ,  and even from this instant to build on thee a better opinion than ever before .
thanks ,  good my countryman .
they have their exits and their entrances ,  and one man in his time plays many parts ,  his acts being seven ages .
o ,  where ,  my lord ?
none that i know will be, much that i fear may chance.
or say ,  sweet love ,  what thou desirest to eat .
i have told him ,  lepidus was grown too cruel ,  that he his high authority abused and did deserve his change .
but woo her, gentle paris, get her heart; my will to her consent is but a part.
when it is lighted, come and call me here.
the citizens are up ,  and tybalt slain .
iago keeps his word .
happily met ,  my lady and my wife .
a was the first that ever bore arms.
benedick ,  didst thou note the daughter of signior leonato ?
he doth; for he did bid antonius send word to you he would be there tomorrow .
indeed ,  this counsellor is now most still ,  most secret ,  and most grave ,  who was in life a foolish prating knave .
normans ,  but bastard normans ,  norman bastards !
we have not spoke us yet of torchbearers .
we will speak further .
pat ,  pat .
dolabella !
how silver - sweet sound lovers' tongues by night ,  like softest music to attending ears !
he ,  when he hears of her ,  cannot refrain from the excess of laughter .
what trumpet is that same ?
have you got leave to go to shrift today ?
i pray you ,  fail me not .
we ,  hermia ,  like two artificial gods ,  have with our needles created both one flower ,  both on one sampler ,  sitting on one cushion ,  both warbling of one song ,  both in one key ,  as if our hands ,  our sides ,  voices ,  and minds ,  had been incorporate .
i spoke with his man .
follow.
nay ,  ’tis twice two months ,  my lord .
come ,  shall we go ?
those that are good manners at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the behavior of the country is most mockable at the court .
we'll to dinner thither .
i am sorry for her ,  as i have just cause ,  being her uncle and her guardian .
is this the poultice for my aching bones ?
what a blow was there given!
let me go in to see the generals .
peace ,  sirrah !
your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to the doctor; for, me to put him to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far more choler.
you are welcome .
cicero one !
an if he be not fought withal ,  my lord ,  let us not live in france .
look up a - height .
you are their heir ,  you sit upon their throne ,  the blood and courage that renownèd them runs in your veins; and my thrice - puissant liege is in the very may - morn of his youth ,  ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises .
this cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen .
i’ll talk with this good fellow .
a man ,  young lady !
believe me ,  sir ,  they butt together well .
go ,  prepare for dinner .
go you down that way towards the capitol; this way will i .  disrobe the images ,  if you do find them deck'd with ceremonies .
how came we ashore?
he will not say so.
now ,  in faith ,  gratiano ,  you give your wife too unkind a cause of grief; an 'twere to me ,  i should be mad at it .
one kiss ,  and i'll descend .
he is at hand ,  and pindarus is come to do you salutation from his master .
follow his chariot ,  like the greatest spot of all thy sex .
i beg for justice ,  which thou ,  prince ,  must give .
by the fire that quickens nilus’ slime ,  i go from hence thy soldier ,  servant ,  making peace or war as thou affects .
would he have stolen away from sleeping hermia?
if any such there be ,  heaven pardon him !
now ,  the next day was our sea fight ,  and what to this was sequent thou know’st already .
question enrages him .
you should be women, and yet your beards forbid me to interpret that you are so.
i did her wrong— canst tell how an oyster makes his shell ?
i cannot bid you bid my daughter live— that were impossible—but ,  i pray you both ,  possess the people in messina here how innocent she died .
that you must teach me .
while then ,  god be with you !
none ,  man; all idle: whores and knaves .
as thou art to thyself .
bruisèd pieces ,  go .
most like a gentleman .
tis so—but edward lives .
that i have ,  lady .
well, sir, we will not.
but i do think it is their husbands' faults if wives do fall .
the sweet and bitter fool will presently appear— the one in motley here ,  the other found out there .
o regan ,  wilt thou take her by the hand ?
if it be a suit from the count ,  i am sick ,  or not at home .
stand fast together, lest some friend of caesar's should chance— talk not of standing.
now do you know the reason of this haste .
when the hurlyburly's done; when the battle's lost and won.
mark antony ,  here ,  take you caesar’s body .
what soldiers ,  patch ?
ay, with a twink.
listen, but speak not to't.
amen ,  amen to that fair prayer ,  say i .
for your desire to know what is between us o'ermaster't as you may.
let our just censures attend the true event, and put we on industrious soldiership.
and though i make this marriage for my peace ,  i’ th’ east my pleasure lies .
my name ,  dear saint ,  is hateful to myself ,  because it is an enemy to thee .
what ,  have you din'd at home ?
i will laugh like a hyena ,  and that when thou art inclined to sleep .
what shall i do ?
upon my life ,  she finds ,  although i cannot ,  myself to be a marv'lous proper man .
you are welcome ,  sir .
after her ,  after her .
mistress ,  your father prays you leave your books and help to dress your sister’s chamber up .
all these are portable, with other graces weigh'd.
i understand you not, my lord.
why did he so?
how now ,  fluellen ,  cam’st thou from the bridge ?
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
first ,  there is the neapolitan prince .
we fail?
and so it is ,  truly; and very notably discharged .
fetch desdemona hither .
follow .
niggard of question ,  but of our demands most free in his reply .
o gentle son, upon the heat and flame of thy distemper sprinkle cool patience!
how now ,  general ?
wilt thou make a trust a transgression ?
where is he ?
here's a farmer that hanged himself on th’ expectation of plenty.
go then ,  find me a meet hour to draw don pedro and the count claudio alone .
and thence from athens turn away our eyes to seek new friends and stranger companies .
the spring, the summer, the childing autumn, angry winter, change their wonted liveries; and the mazed world, by their increase, now knows not which is which.
can you smell him out by that ?
o, if you but knew how you the purpose cherish whiles thus you mock it; how in stripping it.
and when i do ,  i swear it shall be romeo ,  whom you know i hate ,  rather than paris .
sir ,  have pity; i'll be his surety .
i thank you ,  sir .
who was it ?
let him go up into the public chair .
what ,  worse and worse ? — with leave ,  bassanio ,  i am half yourself ,  and i must freely have the half of anything that this same paper brings you .
heaven would that she these gifts should have and i to live and die her slave .
the fairyland buys not the child of me .
miscreant !
bear with my weakness .
by heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
for the meat ,  sir ,  it shall be covered .
play the men .
too much of water hast thou ,  poor ophelia ,  and therefore i forbid my tears; but yet it is our trick; nature her custom holds ,  let shame say what it will .
why ,  but you are now well enough .
some villains of my court are of consent and sufferance in this .
our present business is to general woe .
then must you speak of one that loved not wisely but too well; of one not easily jealous, but, being wrought, perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand, like the base indian, threw a pearl away richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes, albeit unused to the melting mood, drop tears as fast as the arabian trees their medicinal gum.
what ,  my lord ?
have after .
it eats and sleeps and hath such senses as we have ,  such .
she is thine own . — what ,  ariel !
hath any man seen him at the barber’s ?
indeed he hath play'd on this prologue like a child on a recorder,—a sound, but not in government.
these violent delights have violent ends and in their triumph die, like fire and powder, which, as they kiss, consume.
do you know me ,  my lord ?
as great to me as late; and supportable to make the dear loss have i means much weaker than you may call to comfort you ,  for i have lost my daughter .
speak to me .
he poisons him i' the garden for his estate.
younger than she are happy mothers made .
you know i say nothing to him ,  for he understands not me ,  nor i him .
if in thy wisdom thou canst give no help, do thou but call my resolution wise and with this knife i'll help it presently.
mine would ,  sir ,  were i human .
i should have been a sore one then.
i shall be saved by my husband; he hath made me a christian.
pray ,  chuck ,  come hither .
nay ,  if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication ,  i cannot scratch mine ear . —prithee ,  tell her but a workaday fortune .
away ,  go away !
god pardon sin!
no more dams i'll make for fish nor fetch in firing at requiring ,  nor scrape trenchering ,  nor wash dish ’ban ,  ’ban ,  cacaliban has a new master—get a new man !
is there no respect of place ,  persons ,  nor time in you ?
thou know’st not gold’s effect .
by my troth ,  i am glad on't .
nay ,  good my fellows ,  do not please sharp fate to grace it with your sorrows .
that?
then ,  good my lord ,  teach your cousin to consent winking .
i commanded the sleeves should be cut out and sewed up again ,  and that i’ll prove upon thee ,  though thy little finger be armed in a thimble .
never hamlet .
but what trade art thou ?
march gently on to meet him.
is the king stirring, worthy thane?
come, be a man!
we have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth .
when are you married ,  madam ?
what ,  my good lord ?
tis new to thee .
what is amiss ?
it sounds no more; and sure it waits upon some god o'th’ island .
twice did he turn his back and purposed so ,  but kindness ,  nobler ever than revenge ,  and nature ,  stronger than his just occasion ,  made him give battle to the lioness ,  who quickly fell before him; in which hurtling ,  from miserable slumber i awaked .
despair and die !
o my brother's child !
my lady has a white hand ,  and the myrmidons are no bottle - ale houses .
ay ,  marry ,  why was he sent into england ?
bids the winds blow the earth into the sea or swell the curlèd water 'bove the main ,  that things might change or cease .
wilt thou suffer them to make a rescue ?
there's more depends on this than on the value .
then was this island— save for the son that she did litter here, a freckled whelp, hag-born—not honoured with a human shape.
come on, gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks; be bright and jovial among your guests tonight.
bid gloucester think of this ,  and he will weep .
he speaks nothing but madman .
and so swear i .
a worthy pioner!
i do beseech ye ,  if you bear me hard ,  now ,  whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke ,  fulfill your pleasure .
nor send you out o' the way ?
your lordship is right welcome back to denmark .
this is the fairy land .
god witness with me ,  i have wept for thine .
if she and i be pleased ,  what’s that to you ?
i am your host .
let this pernicious hour stand aye accursed in the calendar!
then have my lips the sin that they have took .
did i say  “ better ”  ?
shall she come in?
cassius, what night is this!
so you must take your husbands .
i have seen thee fight when i have envied thy behavior .
and so will i.
on the instant they got clear of our ship; so i alone became their prisoner .
what a strange drowsiness possesses them !
signior antonio !
the son and heir of old tiberio .
draw up your powers .
i would not for the world they saw thee here .
he reads much, he is a great observer, and he looks quite through the deeds of men.
my lord sebastian, the truth you speak doth lack some gentleness and time to speak it in—you rub the sore, when you should bring the plaster.
the king’s a bawcock ,  and a heart of gold ,  a lad of life ,  an imp of fame ,  of parents good ,  of fist most valiant .
when prospero is destroyed .
how came she by that light?
alack ,  what heinous sin is it in me ,  to be asham'd to be my father's child !
foul weather ?
nay ,  certainly ,  i have heard the ptolemies’ pyramises are very goodly things .
i think he will stand very strong with us .
farewell .
what shall be our sport ,  then ?
o ,  farewell !
not in a grave to lay one in ,  another out to have .
as gaming ,  my lord ?
madam ,  it so fell out that certain players we o'erraught on the way .
fairies ,  skip hence; i have forsworn his bed and company .
where are these lads ?
will you go see the order of the course?
is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
is it answered ?
you all did love him once, not without cause; what cause withholds you then to mourn for him?
ding, dong, bell.
i do know ,  when the blood burns ,  how prodigal the soul lends the tongue vows .
as i suck blood ,  i will some mercy show .
whither ?
would he were here!
ye gods ,  it doth amaze me a man of such a feeble temper should so get the start of the majestic world and bear the palm alone .
his daughters seek his death .
he hath ,  my lord ,  of late made many tenders of his affection to me .
i love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
do you know them ?
sir ,  sir ,  i will have law in ephesus ,  to your notorious shame ,  i doubt it not .
tis death to me to be at enmity; i hate it ,  and desire all good men’s love .
come ,  sisters ,  cheer we up his sprites ,  and show the best of our delights .
sweet, do not scorn her so.
thus it remains ,  and the remainder thus .
tis said they eat each other.
why ,  that’s the way to fool their preparation and to conquer their most absurd intents .
o ,  balmy breath ,  that dost almost persuade justice to break her sword !
did you say with cassio ?
do they grow rusty ?
what is the reason of this terrible summons ?
hear me ,  my lord .
i do beseech you ,  sir ,  have patience .
of so high and plenteous wit and invention!
let this pernicious hour stand aye accursèd in the calendar !
i am maim'd forever .
come ,  go with me .
o thou untaught !
to adriana ,  villain ,  hie thee straight .
and death ,  not romeo ,  take my maidenhead !
as strange as the thing i know not .
if wolves had at thy gate howled that stern time ,  thou shouldst have said ,   “ good porter ,  turn the key ,  ”  all cruèls else subscribed .
here.
o hateful day!
very sweet and contagious ,  i' faith .
get thee hence .
nay ,  press not so upon me ,  stand far off .
may i speak with antonio?
i will so.
o father abram ,  what these christians are ,  whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect the thoughts of others !
nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth; for the four winds blow in from every coast renowned suitors ,  and her sunny locks hang on her temples like a golden fleece; which makes her seat of belmont ,  colchos' strand ,  and many jasons come in quest of her .
passion!
why ,  yet it lives there unchecked that antonio hath a ship of rich lading wrack'd on the narrow seas , —the goodwins ,  i think they call the place; a very dangerous flat ,  and fatal ,  where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried ,  as they say ,  if my gossip report ,  be an honest woman of her word .
you shall not seal to such a bond for me !
mine ear must pluck it thence .
speak ,  an if you hear; speak ,  of all loves !
shall i keep your hogs and eat husks with them ?
i marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren rascal .
here ,  peter quince .
the jew shall have my flesh ,  blood ,  bones and all ,  ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood .
what ,  pindarus !
why ,  no; the day had broke before we parted .
i cannot believe that in her; she's full of most blest condition .
how  “ wear the garland ”  ?
in thunder, lightning, or in rain?
he is of note .
my mistress ,  dearest ,  and i thus humble ever .
oh ,  where is romeo ?
it is my lady; o, it is my love!
prithee ,  see there !
i have a daughter—have while she is mine— who in her duty and obedience ,  mark ,  hath given me this .
i never may believe these antique fables nor these fairy toys .
i do.
by sea ,  what else ?
will you laugh me asleep ,  for i am very heavy ?
i doubt not that ,  since we are well - persuaded we carry not a heart with us from hence that grows not in a fair consent with ours ,  nor leave not one behind that doth not wish success and conquest to attend on us .
but do you hear ,  sir ,  have you married my daughter without asking my goodwill ?
nerissa teaches me what to believe; i'll die for't ,  but some woman had the ring .
march gently on to meet him .
where is lysander and fair hermia ?
my master ,  and my lord !
come your ways .
thus answer i in the name of benedick ,  but hear these ill news with the ears of claudio .
what dost thou think ?
whereto serves mercy but to confront the visage of offence ?
o heavy hour !
what ,  my lord ?
o pyramus ,  arise ,  speak ,  speak .
here do i choose ,  and thrive i as i may !
o ,  teach me how you look ,  and with what art you sway the motion of demetrius' heart !
stay yet .
i’d have thee live ,  for in my sense ’tis happiness to die .
to me ,  sir ?
he hath ,  my lord ,  of late made many tenders of his affection to me .
your sword upon a woman?
shall i know your answer?
sport royal ,  i warrant you .
master ,  here’s the gold you sent me for .
fare thee well !
my lord ?
i am no fighter .
why ,  how now ,  general !
no words .
let her know ’t . —   and he will fill thy wishes to the brim with principalities .
not that we love words better ,  as you do .
alas ,  their love may be called appetite ,  no motion of the liver ,  but the palate ,  that suffer surfeit ,  cloyment ,  and revolt; but mine is all as hungry as the sea ,  and can digest as much .
are you the lady of the house ?
perchance even there where i did find my doubts .
get thee gone .
goblin ,  lead them up and down .
for all the rest ,  they'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk; they'll tell the clock to any business that we say befits the hour .
i shall, my lord.
your mind is tossing on the ocean; there ,  where your argosies ,  with portly sail , — like signiors and rich burghers on the flood ,  or ,  as it were ,  the pageants of the sea , — do overpeer the petty traffickers ,  that curt'sy to them ,  do them reverence ,  as they fly by them with their woven wings .
well ,  daughter ,  and you gentlewomen all ,  withdraw into a chamber by yourselves ,  and when i send for you ,  come hither masked .
i would cure you if you would but call me rosalind and come every day to my cote and woo me .
brutus ,  my lord !
my lord, i will use them according to their desert.
what need i fear of thee ?
and so do i .
what ,  to kiss in private ?
so fare you well ,  till we shall meet again .
would i were satisfied!
where is he ?
it is young orlando ,  that tripped up the wrestler’s heels and your heart both in an instant .
dry sorrow drinks our blood .
octavia weeps to part from rome .
had i it written, i would tear the word.
what thou wouldst highly ,  that wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false ,  and yet wouldst wrongly win .
i’ll to england .
crown him?
o, wonderful!
this i wonder at ,  that he ,  unknown to me ,  should be in debt .
my being in egypt ,  caesar ,  what was ’t to you ?
it is an honour that i dream not of .
now ,  by my hood ,  a gentile and no jew .
no ,  for i hold him to be unworthy of his place that does those things .
upon your sword sit laurel victory ,  and smooth success be strewed before your feet .
it hath been taught us from the primal state that he which is was wished until he were ,  and the ebbed man ,  ne’er loved till ne’er worth love ,  comes deared by being lacked .
that death's unnatural that kills for loving.
didst thou not say he comes ?
thou dost see i eat .
it does ,  my boy .
i hid me under the dead moon - calf's gaberdine for fear of the storm .
help ,  help ,  help !
and now ,  good friends ,  as you are friends ,  scholars ,  and soldiers ,  give me one poor request .
he meant he did me none; the more my spite .
well, get you gone.
govern these ventages with your fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
vouchsafe ,  divine perfection of a woman ,  of these supposèd crimes to give me leave by circumstance but to acquit myself .
forty thousand brothers could not, with all their quantity of love, make up my sum.
i hope now thou art not drowned.
will ’t please your mightiness to wash your hands ?
nor i in yours till i again see mine.
i will hear that play; for never anything can be amiss when simpleness and duty tender it .
demand .
search ,  seek ,  and know how this foul murder comes .
but where unbruisèd youth with unstuffed brain doth couch his limbs ,  there golden sleep doth reign .
but she perforce withholds the lovèd boy ,  crowns him with flowers ,  and makes him all her joy .
all ,  all .
i’ll not meddle with it .
god’s bodykins ,  man ,  much better .
fast, i warrant her, she.
against some part of poland .
none, but that ugly treason of mistrust, which makes me fear the enjoying of my love: there may as well be amity and life 'tween snow and fire, as treason and my love.
experience ,  manhood ,  honor ,  ne’er before did violate so itself .
this is some monster of the isle with four legs, who hath got, as i tak it, an ague.
oh ,  villain that i am !
murder ?
dove - feather'd raven !
from the dread summit of this chalky bourn .
begin these woodbirds but to couple now ?
turn thy complexion there, patience, thou young and roselipp'd cherubin, ay, there, look grim as hell!
pray you, if it be, give it me, for i am slow of study.
they are pitiful .
will you tell me that ?
i'll play this bout first; set it by awhile .
alack, my child is dead, and with my child my joys are buried!
what, durst not tempt him?
i know i cannot please you .
this bud of love, by summer's ripening breath, may prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
by and by.
i warrant your honor .
o most courageous day!
banquo and donalbain !
yet at the first i saw the treasons planted .
hid’st thou that forehead with a golden crown where should be branded ,  if that right were right ,  the slaughter of the prince that owed that crown and the dire death of my poor sons and brothers ?
approach, ye furies fell.
and to that place the sharp athenian law cannot pursue us .
who is it ?
why ,  this is evident to any formal capacity .
how have i been behaved ,  that he might stick the small'st opinion on my least misuse ?
in faith ,  hath not the world one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion ?
tis certain .
come ,  my spade .
say, when?
till night ,  my lord ,  and all night too .
montjoy .
what from the cape can you discern at sea ?
the point envenom'd too !
fare you well ,  my lord .
my brother he is in elysium .
quoth my master .
a better instance ,  i say .
lo, she is one of this confederacy!
but i pray you ,  sir ,  are you fast married ?
divinity of hell!
what a blow was there given !
and thou must make a dullard of the world ,  if they not thought the profits of my death were very pregnant and potential spirits to make thee seek it .  ”     o strange and fastened villain !
go ,  girl ,  seek happy nights to happy days .
what ,  is he angry ?
i’ll bring you to him straight .
a daughter ?
nay, we must think men are not gods, i was, unhandsome warrior as i am, arraigning his unkindness with my soul; but now i find i had suborn'd the witness, and he's indicted falsely.
how much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping !
that she was false to wedlock?
thy luster thickens when he shines by .
what is't o'clock ?
we must not .
our knocking has awaked him .
all that glisters is not gold, often have you heard that told: many a man his life hath sold, but my outside to behold: gilded tombs do worms enfold.
but, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow; thy brutus bid me give it thee, and i will do his bidding.
go ,  get thee hence .
i have a man's mind ,  but a woman's might .
follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out thy pump, that, when the single sole of it is worn, the jest may remain, after the wearing, solely singular.
the visitor will not give him o'er so.
first, marcus brutus, will i shake with you; next, caius cassius, do i take your hand; now, decius brutus, yours; now yours, metellus; yours, cinna; and, my valiant casca, yours; though last, not least in love, yours, good trebonius.
now welcome ,  kate ,  and bear me witness all that here i kiss her as my sovereign queen .
arise and say how thou cam'st here.
leave me ,  iago .
hush !
i will speak to this fellow .
what sayest thou ,  biondello ?
you have done well ,  that men must lay their murders on your neck .
but say ,  sir ,  is it dinnertime ?
you laugh when boys or women tell their dreams .
strike ,  i say !
then patiently hear my impatience .
an if i could, what should i get therefore?
where is my mother ?
it did always seem so to us .
it came even from the heart of—oh ,  she’s dead !
caliban drinks] amen!
what tidings can you tell me of my lord ?
by the eighth hour .
thou hast most kindly hit it .
dead ?
i speak not yet of proof.
and to deal plainly i fear i am not in my perfect mind .
tomorrow ,  my lord .
to eat us hungerly ,  and when they are full ,  they belch us .
bring him with triumph home unto his house.
then keep thy vow ,  sirrah ,  when thou meet’st the fellow .
hamlet, this pearl is thine; here's to thy health.
nay ,  we will all of us be there to fetch him .
you advise me well.
how say you ,  cassio ?
good madam ,  patience .
go but apart ,  make choice of whom your wisest friends you will ,  and they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me .
this falls out better than i could devise .
no, sir, she shall not, though you take her part.
but it would better fit your honor to change your mind .
fool!
send one presently to sir toby .
mine would ,  sir ,  were i human .
if my heart’s dear love— well ,  do not swear .
this was sometime a paradox ,  but now the time gives it proof .
i fear the trust othello puts him in on some odd time of his infirmity will shake this island.
with this i depart—that, as i slew my best lover for the good of rome, i have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country to need my death.
there is time enough.
it is not words that shakes me thus.
most potent, grave, and reverend signiors, my very noble and approved good masters, that i have ta'en away this old man's daughter, it is most true; true, i have married her; the very head and front of my offending hath this extent, no more.
and duncan's horses—a thing most strange and certain— beauteous and swift, the minions of their race, turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out, contending ’gainst obedience, as they would make war with mankind.
hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
ay ,  those attires are best .
the portrait of a blinking idiot ,  presenting me a schedule !
we have not made good preparation .
murellus and flavius ,  for pulling scarfs off caesar’s images ,  are put to silence .
can he be angry ?
nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, i am done; for thou hast more of the wild goose in one of thy wits than, i am sure, i have in my whole five.
i do remember well where i should be, and there i am.
you know not whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
we have kissed away kingdoms and provinces .
m ” —malvolio .
live, and be prosperous; and farewell, good fellow.
good my lord ,  vouchsafe me a word with you .
it hath been the untimely emptying of the happy throne and fall of many kings .
banquo and macbeth ,  all hail !
throw physic to the dogs; i’ll none of it .
nay ,  if you strive— but half an hour !
whither ?
i did say so when first i raised the tempest.
but ,  god be thanked ,  there is no need of me ,  and much i need to help you ,  were there need .
what is ’t o'clock ?
my present business calls me from you now .
i will bring you thither .
i am the second son of old sir rowland ,  that bring these tidings to this fair assembly .
and i must be from thence!
the sin upon my head ,  dread sovereign ,  for in the book of numbers is it writ:  “ when the man dies ,  let the inheritance descend unto the daughter .  ”  gracious lord ,  stand for your own ,  unwind your bloody flag ,  look back into your mighty ancestors .
light !
seneca cannot be too heavy, nor plautus too light.
the power of caesar ,  and his power unto octavia .
i will do anything, nerissa, ere i will be married to a sponge.
wherefore did they not that hour destroy us?
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of what part a gen- tleman would see.
send for the county.
i remember one said there were no sal- lets in the lines to make the matter savoury, nor no mat- ter in the phrase that might indict the author of affecta- tion; but called it an honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine.
what handkerchief?
let him be caesar .
come on then; down, and swear.
if we should fail?
but know that i have tonight wooed margaret ,  the lady hero’s gentlewoman ,  by the name of hero .
where joy most revels, grief doth most lament; grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
oh ,  in this love ,  you love your child so ill that you run mad ,  seeing that she is well .
peace ,  ho !
love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity in least speak most to my capacity.
thus i let you go and give you to the gods .
i go; and towards three or four o'clock look for the news that the guildhall affords .
go with me to bless this twain, that they may prospus be and honoured in their issue.
my talk to thee must be how benedick is sick in love with beatrice .
look ,  where he comes .
reputation ,  reputation ,  reputation !
bless you, fair dame!
art thou his friend ?
due for a chain your husband had of him .
every one.
i' faith, i fear it has.
i cannot be so partial ,  goneril ,  to the great love i bear you—      pray you ,  content .
you pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me ?
i am not well in health ,  and that is all .
how now, spirit!
ay ,  tell me that ,  and unyoke .
all but mariners plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel ,  then all afire with me: the king's son ferdinand ,  with hair up - staring—then like reeds ,  not hair— was the first man that leapt ,  cried ,  ’hell is empty ,  and all the devils are here . ’ why ,  that's my spirit !
friends am i with you all and love you all, upon this hope that you shall give me reasons why and wherein caesar was dangerous.
spakest thou of juliet ?
come ,  shall we about it ?
did not you speak?
then yield thee, coward, and live to be the show and gaze o’ the time.
i will omit no opportunity that may convey my greetings ,  love ,  to thee .
where is he now ?
i’ll torture him .
i pray thee ,  good mercutio ,  let's retire .
where the devil should he learn our language ?
marcus octavius ,  marcus justeius ,  publicola ,  and caelius ,  are for sea; but we keep whole by land .
what’s here ?
what can he say in this ?
that is done ,  sir; they have all stomachs .
thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd .
tis true ,  most worthy signior; the duke's in council ,  and your noble self ,  i am sure ,  is sent for .
that hath made him mad .
besides ,  he brings his destiny with him .
madam ,  i will .
what is the news ?
and ,  as he fell ,  did romeo turn and fly .
what man art thou that ,  thus bescreen'd in night ,  so stumblest on my counsel ?
they do me wrong ,  and i will not endure it !
well ,  sir .
lower, lower!
o villain ,  thou hast stolen both mine office and my name !
i charge you ,  go with me .
this thou shalt answer .
i will show myself a tyrant .
i will go call the watch.
he bounds from the earth ,  as if his entrails were hairs ,  le cheval volant ,  the pegasus ,  qui a les narines de feu .
by what ?
why ,  thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit .
o hamlet ,  what a falling off was there !
this is the door .
alas ,  why gnaw you so your nether lip ?
i say ,  we will have no more marriages .
an it had not fallen flat - long .
i know he loves me well .
that is the voice ,  or i am much deceived ,  of portia .
tis neither here nor there .
i cannot find it .
dearly my delicate ariel .
swounds ,  show me what thou'lt do .
twas i that killed her .
you must sing  this nothing’s more than matter .
there's fennel for you ,  and columbines .
tis certain then for cyprus.
in such a night ,  did thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew ,  and saw the lion's shadow ere himself ,  and ran dismay'd away .
let me see one .
that's very true ,  my lord .
but one cup; i'll drink for you .
how doth my lady ?
they are about the court ,  and ,  as i think ,  they have already order this night to play before him .
nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
yet ,  if thou swear'st ,  thou mayst prove false .
but now ,  my lord ,  what say you to my suit ?
let’s all sink wi' th' king .
yes ,  i have gained my experience .
the fire seven times tried this ,  seven times tried that judgment is ,  that did never choose amiss .
she hath the stones upon her ,  and the ducats .  ”  why ,  all the boys in venice follow him ,  crying ,   “ his stones ,  his daughter ,  and his ducats !  ”
weigh it but with the grossness of this age ,  you break not sanctuary in seizing him .
sir ,  most heedfully .
o bloody period !
twas a shame no less than was his loss ,  to course your flying flags and leave his navy gazing .
as much to him, else is his thanks too much.
pity me not ,  but lend thy serious hearing to what i shall unfold .
there's a fearful point !
and when was he wont to wash his face ?
you are naught, you are naught!
my lord ,  in athens .
thou changèd and self - covered thing ,  for shame !
have not you love enough to bear with me ,  when that rash humor which my mother gave me makes me forgetful ?
all that follow their noses are led by their eyes but blind men ,  and there’s not a nose among twenty but can smell him that’s stinking .
these are but wild and whirling words ,  my lord .
how do you, my good lady?
do not believe that ,  from the sense of all civility ,  i thus would play and trifle with your reverence .
good morrow ,  caesar .
then you are a better than the king .
i never gave him token .
i prithee now ,  lead the way without any more talking . — trinculo ,  the king and all our company else being drowned ,  we will inherit here . —here ,  bear my bottle . —fellow trinculo ,  we’ll fill him by and by again .
these foils have all a length ?
i pray you give me leave to go from hence: i am not well; send the deed after me ,  and i will sign it .
why ,  here in denmark .
by the mess ,  ere theise eyes of mine take themselves to slomber ,  ay’ll de gud service ,  or i’ll lig i' th' grund for it ,  ay ,  or go to death .
ay, my lord, an't please you.
you make me study of that: she was of carthage ,  not of tunis .
i’ll run from thee and hide me in the brakes ,  and leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts .
as from a bear a man would run for life ,  so fly i from her that would be my wife .
stand up .
hail to thee, thane of glamis!
good meat ,  sir ,  is common; that every churl affords .
strange things i have in head that will to hand ,  which must be acted ere they may be scann'd .
go, philostrate, stir up the athenian youth to merriments; awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth; turn melancholy forth to funerals; the pale companion is not for our pomp.
we are sent to give thee ,  from our royal master ,  thanks; only to herald thee into his sight ,  not pay thee .
why, for that too.
you forget yourself to hedge me in .
let it go all .
ay ,  a thousand times .
how now ,  lord stanley ,  what’s the news ?
if the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife be stirring ,  tell her there's one cassio entreats her a little favor of speech .
oh ,  wretched villain !
not so happy ,  yet much happier .
o brave touch!
thy mother was a piece of virtue ,  and she said thou wast my daughter; and thy father was duke of milan ,  and his only heir and princess no worse issued .
what men may do !
and liegemen to the dane .
help me into some house ,  benvolio ,  or i shall faint .
to wreak the love i bore my cousin upon his body that slaughtered him !
and in part him ,  but , ’ you may say ,  ‘not well .
why ,  antony .
do but encave yourself, and mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns, that dwell in every region of his face; for i will make him tell the tale anew, where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when he hath and is again to cope your wife: i say, but mark his gesture.
i’ll take my leave .
he'll be hanged yet, though every drop of water swear against it, and gape at wid'st to glut him.
i speak to thee plain soldier .
nay ,  but his jesting spirit ,  which is now crept into a lute string and now governed by stops— indeed ,  that tells a heavy tale for him .
but he ,  that hath the steerage of my course ,  direct my sail !
like a drowned man ,  a fool and a madman .
but shall't be shortly?
go then and muster men ,  but leave behind your son george stanley .
be not so long to speak.
a good note ,  that keeps you from the blow of the law .
wilt thou destroy him then ?
why do we hold our tongues, that most may claim this argument for ours?
i'll put a girdle round about the earth in forty minutes .
and will you rent our ancient love asunder ,  to join with men in scorning your poor friend ?
brief let me be .
why in that rawness left you wife and child, those precious motives, those strong knots of love, without leave-taking?
up .
speak the speech ,  i pray you ,  as i pronounced it to you ,  trippingly on the tongue .
the english power is near ,  led on by malcolm ,  his uncle siward ,  and the good macduff .
farewell, thou lob of spirits; i'll be gone.
out upon her !
farewell ,  and thanks .
monster, i do smell all horse-piss, at which my nose is in great indignation.
she whom i love now doth grace for grace and love for love allow .
tell him so yourself, and see how he will take it at your hands.
and yet thou wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
i do not know you so good a man as myself .
marry ,  this is miching mallecho; it means mischief .
in bed asleep ,  while they do dream things true .
this disturbed sky is not to walk in.
this was the noblest roman of them all.
gramercies ,  tranio ,  well dost thou advise .
how if she be black and witty ?
o romeo, romeo!
how can that be ?
my love thou art ,  my love ,  i think .
you look pale and gaze and put on fear and cast yourself in wonder, to see the strange impatience of the heavens.
a dear happiness to women .
not shine today ?
macbeth !
i prithee ,  put them off .
mine shall be spent when theirs are dry ,  for romeo’s banishment .
so chrish save me ,  i will cut off your head .
i will say for you.
take thou that .
then pleaded i for you .
do so .
god grant him health .
stirred up by dorset ,  buckingham ,  and morton ,  he makes for england ,  here to claim the crown .
swounds ,  show me what thou'lt do .
tis banquo's then .
what are you then determined to do?
therefore ,  good emilia ,  give me my nightly wearing ,  and adieu .
here i am .
why ,  gloucester ,  gloucester ,  i’d speak with the duke of cornwall and his wife .
what though he love your hermia ?
tear him ,  tear him !
octavius, lead your battle softly on, upon the left hand of the even field.
but if all aim but this be leveled false ,  the supposition of the lady’s death will quench the wonder of her infamy .
will you ,  i pray ,  demand that demidevil why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body ?
now do you know the reason of this haste .
dry up your tears and stick your rosemary on this fair corse ,  and ,  as the custom is ,  in all her best array bear her to church; for though fond nature bids us all lament ,  yet nature's tears are reason's merriment .
nothing but songs of death .
it would be spoke to.
this kindness will i show .
say it is done ,  and i will love thee and prefer thee for it .
o woeful, woeful, woeful day!
nay ,  but swear't .
emilia, come.
i’ll assure you ,  he uttered as prave words at the pridge as you shall see in a summer’s day .
my lord, the queen would speak with you, and presently.
the princess is the better englishwoman . —i' faith ,  kate ,  my wooing is fit for thy understanding .
show!
had he his hurts before ?
is he not light of brain ?
i may say “thrusting” it, for piercing steel and darts envenomed shall be as welcome to the ears of brutus as tidings of this sight.
why ,  how now ,  stephano ?
i have an interest in your hearts' proceeding .
good my lord, be quiet.
thy husband .
a miracle !
what think you on ’t ?
i am but mad north-north-west.
let four captains bear hamlet like a soldier to the stage; for he was likely ,  had he been put on ,  to have proved most royal; and ,  for his passage ,  the soldiers' music and the rites of war speak loudly for him .
by heaven ,  i saw my handkerchief in ’s hand .
richard yet lives ,  hell’s black intelligencer ,  only reserved their factor to buy souls and send them thither .
he poisons him i' the garden for his estate .
it is well .
come in and give some help .
welcome ,  horatio .
go on ,  and see whether brutus be alive or dead ,  and bring us word unto octavius' tent how every thing is chanced .
ah ,  but i think him better than i say ,  and yet would herein others' eyes were worse .
bring me just notice of the numbers dead on both our parts .
where is he?
if he had been forgotten ,  it had been as a gap in our great feast and all - thing unbecoming .
you have ,  my lord .
if you have lost him: why, i have lost him too.
now they are my men .
and who is england’s king but great york’s heir ?
methinks i see my cousin's ghost seeking out romeo ,  that did spit his body upon a rapier's point .
adieu ,  noble agrippa .
not that we love words better ,  as you do .
the readiness is all.
he longs to see your head .
yours by this hand .
art thou afeard to be the same in thine own act and valor as thou art in desire?
she's the worse for all this .
dost thou like the plot ,  trinculo ?
hence ,  be gone ,  away !
then call we this the field of agincourt ,  fought on the day of crispin crispianus .
thus ornament is but the guiled shore to a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf veiling an indian beauty; in a word ,  the seeming truth which cunning times put on to entrap the wisest .
i shall the effect of this good lesson keep as watchman to my heart.
to tell you where he lodges is to tell you where i lie .
antonio, as i heard in genoa,— what, what, what?
and for mark antony ,  think not of him ,  for he can do no more than caesar's arm when caesar's head is off .
ne'er may i look on day ,  nor sleep on night but she tells to your highness simple truth .
indeed!
come ,  be a man .
shall i strike at it with my partisan ?
god give your grace good rest .
no ,  no .
but we both obey and here give up ourselves ,  in the full bent ,  to lay our service freely at your feet to be commanded .
if we be not relieved within this hour ,  we must return to th’ court of guard .
most wonderful !
how am i then a villain to counsel cassio to this parallel course ,  directly to his good ?
but, sir, be you ruled by me.
but i pray you ,  ergo ,  old man ,  ergo ,  i beseech you ,  talk you of young master launcelot ?
and i another so weary with disasters ,  tugg'd with fortune ,  that i would set my life on any chance ,  to mend it or be rid on ’t .
there’s a division betwixt the dukes .
oh ,  help ,  ho !
they steal hearts .
that 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts .
art thou contented ,  jew ?
if not ,  the fates with traitors do contrive .
o flesh, flesh, how art thou fishified!
our care and pity is so much upon you that we remain your friend .
do you not hear it ring ?
shall i be frighted when a madman stares ?
where the devil should this romeo be ?
i wonder none of you have thought of him.
so thrive my soul— a thousand times good night !
poor souls ,  they perished .
father ,  i charge thee ,  by thy reverence ,  here to unfold (though lately we intended to keep in darkness what occasion now reveals before ’tis ripe) what thou dost know hath newly passed between this youth and me .
seek ,  seek for him ,  lest his ungoverned rage dissolve the life that wants the means to lead it .
madam !
but i have none .
that is hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
never did faithful subject more rejoice at the discovery of most dangerous treason than i do at this hour joy o'er myself ,  prevented from a damnèd enterprise .
it is to be all made of fantasy ,  all made of passion and all made of wishes ,  all adoration ,  duty ,  and observance ,  all humbleness ,  all patience and impatience ,  all purity ,  all trial ,  all observance ,  and so am i for phoebe .
but i do prophesy the election lights on fortinbras .
three words, dear romeo, and good night indeed.
where hast thou been ,  my heart ?
demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
we are their parents and original .
i held the sword ,  and he did run on it .
yet i'll not shed her blood, nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow and smooth as monumental alabaster.
why, e'en so!
oh ,  yes ,  i heard them all ,  and more too ,  for some of them had in them more feet than the verses would bear .
he was a man, take him for all in all; i shall not look upon his like again.
tomorrow ,  as he purposes .
four nights will quickly dream away the time .
it is a highwrought flood; i cannot ,  'twixt the heaven and the main ,  descry a sail .
tis proper i obey him ,  but not now .
well said ,  old mole !
i cannot draw a cart ,  nor eat dried oats .
as rich shall romeo's by his lady's lie— poor sacrifices of our enmity!
now .
well ,  we shall see your bearing .
then senseless ilium ,  seeming to feel this blow ,  with flaming top stoops to his base ,  and with a hideous crash takes prisoner pyrrhus' ear .
to a nunnery, go.
nothing, messala.
high - day ,  freedom !
set on ,  and leave no ceremony out .
o ,  tell me ,  friar ,  tell me ,  in what vile part of this anatomy doth my name lodge ?
god bless you, sir!
it is no mean happiness, therefore, to be seated in the mean; superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but competency lives longer.
you should be women ,  and yet your beards forbid me to interpret that you are so .
a blank ,  my lord .
and therefore will come .
the soldier’s pole is fall’n !
but yet it is our trick .
o, look, titinius, look, the villains fly!
is ’t lost ?
thus much the business is: we have here writ to norway, uncle of young fortinbras— who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears of this his nephew's purpose—to suppress his further gait herein, in that the levies, the lists, and full proportions, are all made out of his subject; and we here dispatch you, good cornelius, and you, voltimand, for bearers of this greeting to old norway, giving to you no further personal power to business with the king, more than the scope of these dilated articles allow.
i'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again .
i aim'd so near when i suppos'd you lov'd .
did your letters pierce the queen to any demonstration of grief ?
at supper ?
no .
o ,  fie upon them !
he holds me well .
come ,  come ,  you froward and unable worms !
that's as much as to say ,  such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams .
how shalt thou hope for mercy ,  rendering none ?
i will, sir.
then meet me forthwith at the notary's; give him direction for this merry bond ,  and i will go and purse the ducats straight; see to my house ,  left in the fearful guard of an unthrifty knave; and presently i will be with you .
gertrude ,  do not drink .
but this place is too cold for hell.
tis here!
cousin of buckingham ,  a word with you .
a torch for me !
but, othello, speak.
as thou'rt a man ,  give me the cup .
they are winged .
set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue !
friends ,  begone .
hold little faith ,  though thou hast too much fear .
how now ,  how now ?
shylock ,  there's thrice thy money offer'd thee .
helena ,  adieu .
o jew!
adieu.
why ,  so didst thou .
my lord ,  he is but even now gone hence .
thou almost mak'st me waver in my faith, to hold opinion with pythagoras, that souls of animals infuse themselves into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit govern'd a wolf, who, hang'd for human slaughter, even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet, and, whilst thou lay'st in thy unhallow'd dam, infus'd itself in thee; for thy desires are wolvish, bloody, sterved, and ravenous.
went he hence now ?
and this same progeny of evils comes from our debate ,  from our dissension .
doth this news hold of good king edward’s death ?
i must once in a month recount what thou hast been ,  which thou forget’st .
the worser that you give me the addition whose want even kills me .
or he that slew her brothers and her uncles ?
look, sir, here comes the lady toward my cell.
i am so much a fool, should i stay longer, it would be my disgrace and your discomfort.
i am sorry that your leisure serves you not . — antonio ,  gratify this gentleman ,  for in my mind you are much bound to him .
talk you of killing ?
ay ,  and this .
or am i mad ,  hearing him talk of juliet to think it was so ?
come one more; two of both kinds makes up four .
you have stayed me in a happy hour .
o ,  look ,  titinius ,  look ,  the villains fly !
still did i tell him it was vile and bad .
the count’s gentleman ,  one cesario .
without his roe ,  like a dried herring .
doing is activity ,  and he will still be doing .
come .
how came we ashore ?
and do you ,  gratiano ,  mean good faith ?
that do i long to hear .
sweet beatrice ,  wouldst thou come when i called thee ?
follow him ,  friends .
methinks ,  mistress ,  you should have little reason for that .
seal up the mouth of outrage for a while ,  till we can clear these ambiguities and know their spring ,  their head ,  their true descent; and then will i be general of your woes and lead you even to death .
oh ,  i am spoiled ,  undone by villains !
may it be done ?
am i a coward ?
thou knowest the mask of night is on my face; else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek for that which thou hast heard me speak to-night.
ay ,  but not frighted me .
oh ,  that exceeds ,  they say .
come ,  we'll to sleep .
so they are .
fast asleep?
give you good night .
if e'er thou wast thyself, and these woes thine, thou and these woes were all for rosaline.
of what ,  lady ?
love is a smoke rais'd with the fume of sighs; being purg'd ,  a fire sparkling in lovers’ eyes; being vex'd ,  a sea nourish'd with lovers’ tears .
if any ,  speak—for him have i offended .
speak what we feel ,  not what we ought to say .
thy spirit walks abroad ,  and turns our swords in our own proper entrails .
thou hast quar rell'd with a man for coughing in the street ,  because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun .
and that’s but unwholesome food ,  they say .
on what compulsion must i?
how but well ,  sir ?
and o you mortal engines ,  whose rude throats the immortal jove's dread clamors counterfeit ,  farewell !
in truth ,  i know it is a sin to be a mocker ,  but he ! —why ,  he hath a horse better than the neapolitan’s ,  a better bad habit of frowning than the count palatine .
here's cassio hurt by villains.
but till that time come not thou near me .
and now, octavius, listen great things.
i think he would not wish himself anywhere but where he is .
i long to know the truth hereof at large .
how !
did you not speak to it ?
away !
give me a living reason she's disloyal.
tis no time to play now .
well, good night.
stand fast, good fate, to his hanging.
this fellow might be in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries.
for this drivelling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole .
you talk !
your mistress bears well .
it is no matter; let no images be hung with caesar's trophies .
dost thou love me?
do so, and let no man abide this deed but we the doers.
come .
what will i do ,  thinkest thou ?
for this time i will leave you .
make forth .
virtue that transgresses is but patched with sin ,  and sin that amends is but patched with virtue .
it is not yet near day.
rosalind is your love’s name ?
we’ll answer .
lead me .
my lord?
o heaven!—how got she out?
thou dost mean something .
when have i injured thee ?
tis so strange that ,  though the truth of it stands off as gross as black and white ,  my eye will scarcely see it .
and for my sister and her princely sons ,  be satisfied ,  dear god ,  with our true blood ,  which ,  as thou know’st ,  unjustly must be spilt .
o single - sold jest ,  solely singular for the singleness !
and they are gone .
hear me ,  you wrangling pirates ,  that fall out in sharing that which you have pilled from me !
within this hour my man shall be with thee and bring thee cords made like a tackled stair ,  which to the high topgallant of my joy must be my convoy in the secret night .
your worship’s friend and launcelot ,  sir .
now all the plagues that in the pendulous air hang fated o'er men’s faults light on thy daughters !
they were villains ,  murderers .
there, tyrant, there!
if you will patiently dance in our round and see our moonlight revels ,  go with us .
o dear account!
not that ,  i hope ,  which you receiv'd of me .
they were traitors.
you blocks ,  you stones ,  you worse than senseless things !
go, presently inquire, and so will i, where money is; and i no question make, to have it of my trust, or for my sake.
say ,  voltemand ,  what from our brother norway ?
this is not altogether fool ,  my lord .
to have a foolish wife .
ha !
not very well ,  but i have met him oft ,  and he hath bought the cottage and the bounds that the old carlot once was master of .
i would not deny you ,  but ,  by this good day ,  i yield upon great persuasion ,  and partly to save your life ,  for i was told you were in a consumption .
and the rarest that e'er came there.
whither away ?
you hear how he importunes me .
and second father this lady makes him to me .
so do i ,  my lord .
my dagger ,  little cousin ?
man is but an ass if he go about to expound this methought i was—there is no man can tell what dream.
not poppy nor mandragora nor all the drowsy syrups of the world ,  shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep which thou owedst yesterday .
as manhood shall compound .
give me my sword .
madam ,  good night .
why is your cheek so pale ?
now ,  charmian !
what will you give us?
i was a fine fool to take it .
my thanes and kinsmen, henceforth be earls, the first that ever scotland in such an honor named.
what's done is done .
she will not stay the siege of loving terms ,  nor bide th’ encounter of assailing eyes ,  nor ope her lap to saint - seducing gold .
romans ,  countrymen ,  and lovers !
for brutus' sake, i am beholding to you.
indeed ,  the french may lay twenty french crowns to one they will beat us ,  for they bear them on their shoulders .
look where she comes .
i know not if't be true; but i for mere suspicion in that kind will do as if for surety .
o ,  that once more you knew but what you are !
if we do meet again, why, we shall smile; if not, why then this parting was well made.
give me your pardon ,  sir .
o ,  then ,  what graces in my love do dwell ,  that he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell !
where have i been ?
there’s magic in the web of it .
why, how now, stephano?
set him before me .
of so high and plenteous wit and invention !
the wine of life is drawn ,  and the mere lees is left this vault to brag of .
o, tell me, friar, tell me, in what vile part of this anatomy doth my name lodge?
come ,  instance .
have at you now!
with all my heart.
take hence this jack and whip him .
it is too heavy for your grace to wear .
if a man do not erect in this age his own tomb ere he dies ,  he shall live no longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps .
even by the rule of that philosophy by which i did blame cato for the death which he did give himself: i know not how ,  but i do find it cowardly and vile ,  for fear of what might fall ,  so to prevent the time of life: arming myself with patience to stay the providence of some high powers that govern us below .
i never knew woman love man so .
young men’s love then lies not truly in their hearts ,  but in their eyes .
get thee to a nunnery!
but to the quick o' the ulcer !
which of you have done this?
believe what ?
nay, heaven doth know.
a jealous hood ,  a jealous hood !
my maid nerissa and myself meantime will live as maids and widows .
what, still in tears?
i am a spirit of no common rate .
i will follow you.
he, woman; i say thy husband.
pray you ,  let’s sit together .
i saw mark antony offer him a crown, yet 'twas not a crown neither, 'twas one of these coronets and, as i told you, he put it by once.
why ,  what did i ?
how now ?
tis now struck twelve .
truly, and i hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
the man i' th' moon !
you love me not .
yet this i will not do ,  do how i can .
o my dear cassio ,  my sweet cassio !
and what will you do now ?
mistrust of my success hath done this deed .
for this pains caesar hath hanged him .
but i prattle something too wildly ,  and my father's precepts i therein do forget .
seek it out.
go to ,  go to .
i do not like the office; but sith i am enter'd in this cause so far ,  prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love ,  i will go on .
is it so brave as lass?
be as ourself in denmark . —madam ,  come .
you have been hotly call'd for; when, being not at your lodging to be found, the senate hath sent about three quests to search you out.
have patience ,  i beseech .
to th’ most of men this is a caliban, and they to him are angels.
tis meet i should be used so, very meet.
an if i could ,  what should i get therefore ?
machinations ,  hollowness ,  treachery ,  and all ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves .
gregory, on my word, we'll not carry coals.
the cockerel .
we will ,  my lord .
what if this mixture do not work at all ?
i stand for judgment .
madam, how like you this play?
gentleman ,  god save thee .
sola ,  sola !
under love's heavy burden do i sink .
nay ,  i bear it on my shoulders as a beggar wont her brat ,  and i think when he hath lamed me ,  i shall beg with it from door to door .
who bids thee call ?
it should be—but he is drowned ,  and these are devils .
for ever, and for ever, farewell, cassius!
i am the greatest, able to do least, yet most suspected, as the time and place doth make against me, of this direful murder; and here i stand, both to impeach and purge myself condemned and myself excus'd.
i was enforc'd to send it after him; i was beset with shame and courtesy; my honour would not let ingratitude so much besmear it.
it is ,  and wants but nomination .
his sword, which was declining on the milky head of reverend priam, seem'd i' the air to stick.
the life?
but note me ,  signor—
very well .
would all the world but he had quite forsworn !
i think it is .
who cannot want the thought, how monstrous it was for malcolm and for donalbain to kill their gracious father?
she must change for youth .
to antonio] for you ,  most wicked sir ,  whom to call [to antonio] for you ,  most wicked sir ,  whom to call brother would even infect my mouth ,  i do forgive thy rankest fault ,  all of them ,  and require my dukedom of thee ,  which perforce i know thou must restore .
but ,  sirrah ,  mark ,  we use to say the dead are well .
how say you ,  lady ?
if a christian did not play the knave and get thee ,  i am much deceived .
did this in caesar seem ambitious ?
the time has been my senses would have cooled to hear a night - shriek ,  and my fell of hair would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir as life were in ’t .
how is ’t ,  my noble lord ?
for even now i put myself to thy direction and unspeak mine own detraction; here abjure the taints and blames i laid upon myself ,  for strangers to my nature .
good beauties ,  let me sustain no scorn .
but all the story of the night told over, and all their minds transfigured so together, more witnesseth than fancy's images, and grows to something of great constancy, but howsoever strange and admirable.
do not laugh at me ,  for as i am a man ,  i think this lady to be my child cordelia .
here ,  sir ,  as foolish as i was before .
i pray you ,  bring me on the way a little; and say if i shall see you soon at night .
since no man has aught of what he leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
give me a kiss .
masters ,  let him go .
shortly shall all my labors end ,  and thou shalt have the air at freedom .
doubtful it stood ,  as two spent swimmers that do cling together and choke their art .
long love doth so .
they stumble that run fast .
she’s an excellent sweet lady ,  and ,  out of all suspicion ,  she is virtuous .
give ’s your hand .
he smiled and said  “ the better for our purpose .  ”  he was in the right ,  and so indeed it is .
good morrow to thee .
is he not honest?
who comes here?
god shield i should disturb devotion ! — juliet ,  on thursday early will i rouse ye .
i had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man swear he loves me .
then do but say to me what i should do that in your knowledge may by me be done ,  and i am pressed unto it .
be comforted ,  good madam .
what is the matter?
but by and by comes back to romeo ,  who had but newly entertained revenge ,  and to ’t they go like lightning ,  for ere i could draw to part them was stout tybalt slain .
but art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too ,  that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion ?
this was an ill beginning of the night.
are you so hot?
not in this land shall he remain uncaught .
the goodness of the night upon you ,  friends !
marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown, he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut.
i'll send a friar with speed to mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
how can this be ?
no, not take interest; not, as you would say, directly interest: mark what jacob did.
let me but bind it hard ,  within this hour it will be well .
arms ,  take your last embrace .
juno and ceres whisper seriously .
tears his white hair ,  which the impetuous blasts ,  with eyeless rage ,  catch in their fury and make nothing of .
this is thy office .
i will ,  my lord .
i shall not fear fly- blowing.
patience ,  i say .
o ,  no ,  a lantern ,  slaughtr'd youth ,  for here lies juliet ,  and her beauty makes this vault a feasting presence full of light .
and now, good friends, as you are friends, scholars, and soldiers, give me one poor request.
hark!
tell her the king ,  that may command ,  entreats— that ,  at her hands ,  which the king’s king forbids .
o caesar ,  read mine first ,  for mine's a suit that touches caesar nearer .
sinful macduff ,  they were all struck for thee !
you’re fall’n into a princely hand .
learn of the wise and perpend: civet is of a baser birth than tar ,  the very uncleanly flux of a cat .
her name, that was as fresh as dian's visage, is now begrimed and black as mine own face.
go release them ,  ariel .
am i a married man or a bachelor ?
or if thou hast not sat as i do now ,  wearying thy hearer in thy mistress’s praise ,  thou hast not loved .
give us a light there ,  ho !
she hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide ,  hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit to his full height .
who's there ?
tell him i would speak with him .
the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars as daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven would through the airy region stream so bright that birds would sing and think it were not night .
i am sure you are not launcelot ,  my boy .
though now we must appear bloody and cruel ,  as ,  by our hands and this our present act ,  you see we do ,  yet see you but our hands and this the bleeding business they have done .
to ireland ,  i .
your man and you are marvelous merry ,  sir .
speak ,  strike ,  redress !  ”  am i entreated to speak and strike ?
it was two ere i left him ,  and now the clock strikes one .
what man dare ,  i dare .
consider then ,  we come but in despite .
i am dead ,  horatio .
didst thou dream ,  lucius ,  that thou so criedst out ?
but are not some whole that we must make sick ?
no ?
how shall that faith return again to earth ,  unless that husband send it me from heaven by leaving earth ?
i think so too .
tis a good dullness ,  and give it way .
no ,  sir ,  the worse .
i'll go farther off.
he is addressed .
this you should pity rather than despise.
good night ,  good brother .
i mean ,  in a sort .
o, throw away the worser part of it, and live the purer with the other half, good night—but go not to my uncle's bed.
by this light ,  a most perfidious and drunken monster .
i will this night ,  in several hands ,  in at his windows throw ,  as if they came from several citizens ,  writings all tending to the great opinion that rome holds of his name ,  wherein obscurely caesar’s ambition shall be glancèd at .
know him i shall ,  i am well sure of it .
amen ,  with all my heart .
they do but jest ,  poison in jest; no offence i' the world .
yes ,  and shall do till the pangs of death shake him .
why dost thou ask ?
your cause of sorrow must not be measured by his worth, for then it hath no end.
the duke himself, or any of my brothers of the state, cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own; for if such actions may have passage free, bond-slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be.
i guess at it .
patience awhile ,  good cassio .
eyes ,  do you see ?
men must not walk too late .
cassio knows you not .
i am stuffed ,  cousin .
you must not put another scandal on him, that he is open to incontinency.
thy evil spirit, brutus.
dost thou say so?
we shall further think on ’t .
to the selfsame tune and words .
cassius from bondage will deliver cassius .
what is the matter ,  husband ?
o ,  bear him out o' the air .
o ,  sir ,  upon her nose ,  all o'er - embellished with rubies ,  carbuncles ,  sapphires ,  declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of spain ,  who sent whole armadas of caracks to be ballast at her nose .
heavens make our presence and our practices pleasant and helpful to him!
but were i brutus, and brutus antony, there were an antony would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue in every wound of caesar that should move the stones of rome to rise and mutiny.
i desire your more acquaintance, good master mustardseed.
good signiors both ,  when shall we laugh ?
he found it then; i never gave it him .
well, i will undertake it.
o god ,  i could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space ,  were it not that i have bad dreams .
how now ,  brother edmund ?
save his majesty!
thus hath the candle singed the moth .
what satisfaction canst thou have to - night ?
therefore then ,  thou gaudy gold ,  hard food for midas ,  i will none of thee .
i kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
how canst thou try them so?
ho ,  lucilius !
kind gentlemen, your pains are register'd where every day i turn the leaf to read them.
we all expect a gentle answer ,  jew .
where's romeo's man?
no more !
this is trebonius .
what trade ,  thou knave ?
sweet marjoram .
if i could bid the fifth welcome with so good a heart as i can bid the other four farewell ,  i should be glad of his approach: if he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil ,  i had rather he should shrive me than wive me .
his absence ,  sir ,  lays blame upon his promise .
i think i hear them .
one word more.
a halter pardon him !
get you to bed again ,  it is not day .
marry, farewell!
no ,  sir ,  i say his horse comes ,  with him on his back .
these evils thou repeat'st upon thyself have banish'd me from scotland .
to these injunctions every one doth swear, that comes to hazard for my worthless self.
since the youth will not be entreated ,  his own peril on his forwardness .
well ,  in that hit you miss .
she's a most exquisite lady.
see, see, our honor'd hostess!
a foolish heart ,  that i leave here behind .
we may as bootless spend our vain command upon th' enragèd soldiers in their spoil as send precepts to the leviathan to come ashore .
see thou dissemble not .
ay ,  that way goes the game .
verona's summer hath not such a flower.
i speak not this that you should bear a good opinion of my knowledge ,  insomuch i say i know you are .
you have among you many a purchased slave ,  which—like your asses and your dogs and mules— you use in abject and in slavish parts because you bought them .
oh ,  that i were a fool !
no ,  my good knight .
hold ,  or cut bowstrings .
where be his quiddities now ,  his quillets ,  his cases ,  his tenures ,  and his tricks ?
yes ,  faith ,  and all his lords ,  the duke of milan and his brave son being twain .
they say they have letters for you.
this is illyria ,  lady .
justice ,  most sacred duke ,  against the abbess .
i know not ,  madam .
what ,  wilt thou flout me thus unto my face ,  being forbid ?
there is some strange thing toward ,  edmund .
pay him six thousand, and deface the bond; double six thousand, and then treble that, before a friend of this description shall lose a hair through bassanio's fault.
then, venom, to thy work.
is it so nominated in the bond ?
but i will tell you at some meeter season .
judge ,  o you gods ,  how dearly caesar loved him !
are not you lysander?
no, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries as are behoveful for our state to-morrow.
but ,  hark thee ,  charmian .
thou art so far before, that swiftest wing of recompense is slow to overtake thee.
have you a soul or sense?
what is amiss?
woo’t thou fight well ?
for me ,  i’ll not be gone till i please myself .
and in this habit met i my father with his bleeding rings ,  their precious stones new lost ,  became his guide ,  led him ,  begged for him ,  saved him from despair .
here will i rest me till the break of day .
i hate the word ,  as i hate hell ,  all montagues ,  and thee .
madam ,  in rome .
informed them ”  ?
let me see.
some good i mean to do despite of mine own nature .
delay not, caesar; read it instantly.
he did bewray his practice ,  and received this hurt you see striving to apprehend him .
the time is out of joint .
this supernatural cannot be ill, cannot be good.
and we mean well, in going to this mask; but 'tis no wit to go.
hear you ought of her in yours ?
the queen ,  my lord ,  the queen .
it hath not appeared.
yes ,  by saint anne ,  and ginger shall be hot i' the mouth too .
a soothsayer bids you beware the ides of march .
i like not that.
here ,  sir ,  a ring she bid me give you ,  sir .
nay ,  but who is it ?
ay, do you fear it?
that i can keep your counsel ,  and not mine own .
i will to venice .
yes ,  gracious madam .
so much for praising myself ,  who ,  i myself will bear witness ,  is praiseworthy .
thou hast.
i do not in position distinctly speak of her; though i may fear, her will, recoiling to her better judgement, may fall to match you with her country forms, and happily repent.
o, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs all from her father's death.
if thou beest not immortal ,  look about you .
he speaks not true .
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ?
stop thy unhallowed toil, vile montague!
one from the lord stanley .
here on his manly breast .
a single thing, as i am now, that wonders to hear thee speak of naples.
ha ?
i think it lacks of twelve .
by this hand ,  i love thee .
let me see the county .
i was a fine fool to take it.
your worship was wont to tell me that i could do nothing without bidding .
were we before our armies ,  and to fight ,  i should do thus .
have we devils here ?
to sebastian] why ,  in good time .
a dream itself is but a shadow .
the laws are mine ,  not thine .
i am doubtful that you have been conjunct and bosomed with her as far as we call hers .
nor i ,  my lord .
hail !
your virtue is my privilege.
pray you ,  look not sad ,  nor make replies of loathness .
what !
did we ,  my lord ?
let me be satisfied ,  is't good or bad ?
i believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.
the shallowest thick - skin of that barren sort ,  who pyramus presented ,  in their sport forsook his scene and ent'red in a brake; when i did him at this advantage take ,  an ass's nole i fixed on his head .
now ,  music ,  sound ,  and sing your solemn hymn .
if a bloody coxcomb be a hurt ,  you have hurt me .
thus then in brief: the valiant paris seeks you for his love.
so be it !
hath he ask'd for me ?
o ,  quicken them with thine !
i cannot tell .
i have not art to reckon my groans ,  but that i love thee best ,  oh ,  most best ,  believe it .
methinks his words do from such passion fly ,  that he believes himself .
come ,  how wouldst thou praise me ?
will you stay a while?
but i am very sorry, good horatio, that to laertes i forgot myself, for by the image of my cause i see the portraiture of his.
i dreamt there was an emperor antony .
trip away; make no stay; meet me all by break of day.
jesu, what haste!
speak ,  speak !
masters ,  you are all welcome .
they mean this night in sardis to be quartered .
was this fair paper, this most goodly book, made to write “whore” upon?
if thou dost i shall never love thee after .
how shall i answer you ?
where’s my fool ,  ho ?
show me briefly how .
we’ll enter all together .
come now, your promise.
swear .
when at your hands did i deserve this scorn?
not yet ,  my cousin .
help !
iago .
and wished to see thee cross - gartered .  ”  cross - gartered ?
but this is trifling, and all the more it seeks to hide itself the bigger bulk it shows.
whate'er thou art ,  for thy good caution ,  thanks .
yes, every man of them, and no man here but honors you, and every one doth wish you had but that opinion of yourself which every noble roman bears of you.
he that sweetest rose will find must find love’s prick ,  and rosalind .
do all men kill the things they do not love?
to ferdinand] one word more; i [to ferdinand] one word more; i charge thee that thou attend me.
to whom ,  my lord ?
is not this man jealous ?
nor i .
if it be, why seems it so particular with thee?
o iago !
come hither, good volumnius, list a word.
and you shall be satisfied .
was the hope drunk wherein you dressed yourself ?
ay, my good lord.
come thy ways ,  signior fabian .
tell me ,  othello .
i cannot be so answer’d .
now ,  by my holidam ,  here comes katherina !
i say ,  but mark his gesture .
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ?
be innocent of the knowledge ,  dearest chuck ,  till thou applaud the deed .
no warmth ,  no breath shall testify thou livest .
when truth kills truth ,  o devilish - holy fray !
stay ,  jaques ,  stay .
our wars are done.
yet i should kill thee with much cherishing .
live a little ,  comfort a little ,  cheer thyself a little .
this way ,  my lord .
therefore perpend ,  my princess ,  and give ear .
a worthy pioner !
i am about it; but indeed my invention comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze; it plucks out brains and all .
o madam ,  my old heart is cracked ,  it’s cracked .
i’ll rather kill myself .
o earth !
it makes us, or it mars us; think on that, and fix most firm thy resolution.
shall i deny you?
no wonder ,  sir ,  but certainly a maid .
forth of my heart those charms ,  thine eyes ,  are blotted; thy bed ,  lust - stain'd shall with lust's blood be spotted .
now the condition.
speak ,  hands ,  for me !
spirit ,  we must prepare to meet with caliban .
it was ourself thou didst abuse .
i have made it for you .
about the wood go swifter than the wind ,  and helena of athens look thou find— all fancy - sick she is and pale of cheer ,  with sighs of love ,  that costs the fresh blood dear .
why ,  go to then .
i warrant you, sir; the white cold virgin snow upon my heart abates the ardour of my liver.
is the storm overblown ?
come ,  march to wakes and fairs and market towns .
i think we do know the sweet roman hand .
signior lodovico ?
dined at home ”  ?
why may not imagination trace the noble dust of alexander till he find it stopping a bunghole ?
all this is comfort .
in genoa?
why ,  bride !
yet ,  in reason ,  no man should possess him with any appearance of fear ,  lest he ,  by showing it ,  should dishearten his army .
you are—a senator.
o ,  help him ,  you sweet heavens !
in food ,  in sport ,  and life - preserving rest to be disturbed ,  would mad or man or beast .
i must needs tell thee all .
what had he done ,  to make him fly the land ?
get you therefore hence ,  poor miserable wretches ,  to your death ,  the taste whereof god of his mercy give you patience to endure ,  and true repentance of all your dear offences . —bear them hence .
god give us leisure for these rites of love !
and come yourselves and bring messala with you immediately to us.
i am one, my liege, whom the vile blows and buffets of the world have so incensed that i am reckless what i do to spite the world.
tis even so; for let our finger ache ,  and it indues our other healthful members even to that sense of pain .
have you done yet ?
go armed .
madam ,  i am here .
o day !
condemned villain ,  i do apprehend thee .
and till she come ,  as truly as to heaven i do confess the vices of my blood so justly to your grave ears i’ll present how i did thrive in this fair lady’s love and she in mine .
well ,  my good lord ,  i’ll do ’t .
be thou familiar ,  but by no means vulgar .
this is the latest parle we will admit .
the ingratitude of this seleucus does even make me wild .
dost thou not bring me letters from the friar ?
the thane of cawdor lives, a prosperous gentleman; and to be king stands not within the prospect of belief, no more than to be cawdor.
the old cock .
no greater heart in thee ?
th’ art an honest man .
look to ’t .
were we not born under taurus ?
that ever i should live to see thee dead .
the violence of either grief or joy their own enactures with themselves destroy .
i will not speak with her.
come ,  some music !
it is a massy wheel ,  fix'd on the summit of the highest mount ,  to whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things are mortised and adjoin'd; which ,  when it falls ,  each small annexment ,  petty consequence ,  attends the boisterous ruin .
how many goodly creatures are there here !
now, tybalt, take the ‘villain’ back again that late thou gavest me; for mercutio's soul is but a little way above our heads, staying for thine to keep him company.
call my sister so .
tis he .
but soft !
i'll mark the play.
but ,  gentle heavens ,  cut short all intermission .
i doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve for sweet discourses in our time to come.
and for that i promised you ,  i’ll be as good as my word .
my villainy they have upon record ,  which i had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my shame .
down !
that now i will have—that’s the humor of it .
a gentle riddance . —draw the curtains ,  go . — let all of his complexion choose me so .
and for the rest o' th' fleet ,  which i dispersed ,  they all have met again and are upon the mediterranean float ,  bound sadly home for naples ,  supposing that they saw the king’s ship wracked and his great person perish .
no master, sir, but a poor man's son: his father, though i say it, is an honest exceeding poor man, and, god be thanked, well to live.
why look you strange on me ?
you are the singer .
yet here's a spot.
i can write very like my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter we can hardly make distinction of our hands .
come ,  let me wipe thy face .
you are merry ,  my lord .
my thanes and kinsmen ,  henceforth be earls ,  the first that ever scotland in such an honor named .
good madam !
you shall not gauge me by what we do tonight .
she that doth call me husband ,  even my soul doth for a wife abhor .
indeed ,  my lord ,  you made me believe so .
my lord ?
from fife, great king, where the norweyan banners flout the sky and fan our people cold.
if with myself i hold intelligence or have acquaintance with mine own desires ,  if that i do not dream or be not frantic— as i do trust i am not—then ,  dear uncle ,  never so much as in a thought unborn did i offend your highness .
tell me, that i may sack the hateful mansion.
let us go sit here upon the church bench till two ,  and then all to bed .
or blessèd was't we did ?
for thou hast been as one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing; a man that fortune's buffets and rewards hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those whose blood and judgment are so well commeddled that they are not a pipe for fortune's finger to sound what stop she please.
if you poison us ,  do we not die ?
and for an earnest of a greater honor, he bade me, from him, call thee thane of cawdor.
i was always plain with you, and so now i speak my agitation of the matter: therefore, be of good chee; for, truly, i think you are damned.
there shall the pairs of faithful lovers be wedded ,  with theseus ,  all in jollity .
do you triumph, roman?
but lend it rather to thine enemy ,  who ,  if he break ,  thou mayst with better face exact the penalty .
if you will see it ,  follow me .
what speech, my good lord?
what ,  i ,  my lord ?
be simple - answered ,  for we know the truth .
no .
i grant him bloody ,  luxurious ,  avaricious ,  false ,  deceitful ,  sudden ,  malicious ,  smacking of every sin that has a name .
and trust me ,  love ,  in my eye so do you .
if caesar please ,  our master will leap to be his friend .
i will hear that play .
would you buy her ,  that you enquire after her ?
beating trinculo] as you like [beating trinculo] as you like this ,  give me the lie another time .
i had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad— and to travel for it ,  too .
tis better as it is .
nor did you nothing hear ?
demetrius thinks not so .
i prithee let me hear it .
madam ,  i am not well .
tis better as it is .
for hamlet, and the trifling of his favours, hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood; a violet in the youth of primy nature, forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting; the perfume and suppliance of a minute; no more.
how ?
why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel ,  and will not tell him of his action of battery ?
it is enacted in the laws of venice , — if it be proved against an alien that by direct or indirect attempts he seek the life of any citizen ,  the party 'gainst the which he doth contrive ,  shall seize one half his goods; the other half comes to the privy coffer of the state; and the offender's life lies in the mercy of the duke only ,  'gainst all other voice .
how ,  how ,  how ,  how ?
i am not taught to make anything .
mine eyes do itch; doth that bode weeping?
did he confess it ?
why is this  “ impawned ,  ”  as you call it ?
thou almost makest me waver in my faith to hold opinion with pythagoras that souls of animals infuse themselves into the trunks of men .
the human mortals want their winter here; no night is now with hymn or carol blest; therefore the moon, the governess of floods, pale in her anger, washes all the air, that rheumatic diseases do abound.
he is very well - favored ,  and he speaks very shrewishly .
chopped logic !
alas !
what is your pleasure?
i do consent—    prick him down ,  antony .
the fault of it i’ll answer .
why ,  he drinks you with facility your dane dead drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your almain .
where’s my cousin toby ?
what ,  lamb !
how then?
how say you ,  cassio ?
fie ,  what a slug is hastings that he comes not to tell us whether they will come or no !
get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence!
no ,  boy .
here he comes .
what, with worms and flies?
goodly lord ,  what a wit - snapper are you !
we’ll to church tomorrow .
his name's gonzago .
it signs well ,  does it not ?
o fates!
is't possible ?
how wilt thou do for a father?
this might be my lord such - a -  one ,  that praised my lord such - a - one's horse when he meant to beg it ,  might it not ?
it will be rain tonight .
if you can separate yourself and your misdemeanors ,  you are welcome to the house .
and to see how he prizes the foolish woman your wife !
but though i am a daughter to his blood ,  i am not to his manners .
peace !
for the dauphin ,  i stand here for him .
i am sorry to hear this.
but you'll be secret?
i have no wife.
i peace!
hath the fellow any wit that told you this ?
shall i not then be stifled in the vault ,  to whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in ,  and there die strangled ere my romeo comes ?
hark ,  what noise is this ?
farewell ,  cicero .
set your countenance ,  sir .
tis she must do ’t ,  and ,  lo ,  the happiness !
i am famished in his service .
you should hear reason .
i am not drunk now .
why ,  i said nothing .
well ,  as time shall try .
why ,  worthy thane ,  you do unbend your noble strength ,  to think so brainsickly of things .
my hounds are bred out of the spartan kind, so flew'd, so sanded; and their heads are hung with ears that sweep away the morning dew; crook-knee'd and dew-lapp'd like thessalian bulls; slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells, each under each.
good madam ,  what's the matter with my lord ?
now ,  as i am a christian ,  answer me in what safe place you have bestowed my money ,  or i shall break that merry sconce of yours that stands on tricks when i am undisposed .
o worthiest cousin !
the rarer action is in virtue than in vengeance .
there is no way but this ,  sir andrew .
drones hive not with me .
concerning this, sir—o well-painted passion!— i am commanded home.
both he loves .
we, hermia, like two artificial gods, have with our needles created both one flower, both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, both warbling of one song, both in one key; as if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds, had been incorporate.
was this ambition ?
i’ll go farther off .
almost as bad ,  good mother ,  as kill a king ,  and marry with his brother .
why the devil came you between us ?
out ,  you green - sickness carrion !
but ,  good kate ,  mock me mercifully ,  the rather ,  gentle princess ,  because i love thee cruelly .
what is it thou didst say ?
i do fear ,  the people choose caesar for their king .
brave son ,  derived from honorable loins !
you cankerb lossom!
would i had met my dearest foe in heaven or ever i had seen that day ,  horatio .
the watery kingdom ,  whose ambitious head spits in the face of heaven ,  is no bar to stop the foreign spirits ,  but they come as o'er a brook to see fair portia .
i shall obey ,  my lord .
good, i will expect you.
antonio is a good man.
where did you leave him ?
tweaks me by the nose ?
was my father a traitor, mother?
what do you mean ?
your mother.
we would so ,  and then go a - bat - fowling .  .  [to gonzalo] nay ,  good my lord ,  be not angry .
wife, we scarce thought us blest that god had lent us but this only child; but now i see this one is one too much, and that we have a curse in having her.
if it be true that good wine needs no bush ,  ’tis true that a good play needs no epilogue .
ay, sir.
sad hours seem long.
o ,  fear me not .
fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds by what you see them act.
love give me strength ,  and strength shall help afford .
and one deformed is one of them .
most royal sir ,  fleance is 'scaped .
why ?
what i am truly ,  is thine and my poor country's to command: whither indeed ,  before thy here - approach ,  old siward ,  with ten thousand warlike men ,  already at a point ,  was setting forth .
fortune pursue thee !
if you have any pity ,  grace ,  or manners ,  you would not make me such an argument .
plucking the entrails of an offering forth, they could not find a heart within the beast.
let me come to her .
he’s fat ,  and scant of breath . — here ,  hamlet ,  take my napkin ,  rub thy brows .
no ,  no ,  i am as ugly as a bear ,  for beasts that meet me run away for fear .
safe ,  antony .
he will not know what all but he do know .
upon the right hand i .
the more my wrong ,  the more his spite appears .
my lord is not my lord ,  nor should i know him were he in favor as in humor altered .
what say you ,  hermia ?
softly and swiftly ,  sir ,  for the priest is ready .
soldiers ,  sir .
what man is that ?
i am debating of my present store: and, by the near guess of my memory, i cannot instantly raise up the gross of full three thousand ducats.
i humbly take my leave .
i love thee well in that thou lik’st it not .
ergo ,  master launcelot .
but i remember now i am in this earthly world, where to do harm is often laudable, to do good sometime accounted dangerous folly.
i hold your dainties cheap ,  sir ,  and your welcome dear .
i have had a most rare vision.
bear it coldly but till midnight and let the issue show itself .
marry, bachelor, her mother is the lady of the house.
ay ,  sir .
but what is your affair in elsinore?
nay ,  he reserved a blanket ,  else we had been all shamed .
where is this sight ?
what hempen home - spuns have we swagg'ring here ,  so near the cradle of the fairy queen ?
he is a gentleman of a good house ,  and for his ransom he will give you two hundred crowns .
there is one within ,  besides the things that we have heard and seen ,  recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch .
there’s something in ’t that is deceivable .
these gloves the count sent me ,  they are an excellent perfume .
for england ?
see where she comes from shrift with merry look.
all for your delight we are not here .
why ,  sir ,  his hide is so tanned with his trade that a will keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body .
my way of life is fall'n into the sear ,  the yellow leaf ,  and that which should accompany old age ,  as honor ,  love ,  obedience ,  troops of friends ,  i must not look to have; but ,  in their stead ,  curses ,  not loud but deep ,  mouth - honor ,  breath ,  which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not .
and long live you to think so!
you durst not so have tempted him .
therefore play ,  music . —prince ,  thou art sad .
i drunk!
here’s too much  “ out upon thee !  ”  i pray thee ,  let me in .
oh ,  thou wilt speak again of banishment .
that i disdain .
if ill, why hath it given me earnest of success, commencing in a truth?
pale ,  or red ?
directly .
say ,  uncle gloucester ,  if our brother come ,  where shall we sojourn till our coronation ?
and you shall be satisfied .
that did i, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
sir, she is mortal; but by immortal providence she's mine.
thou liest .
clerk ,  draw a deed of gift .
let their heads be slickly combed ,  their blue coats brushed ,  and their garters of an indifferent knit .
for she his hairy temples then had rounded with coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers; and that same dew which sometime on the buds was wont to swell ,  like round and orient pearls stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes ,  like tears ,  that did their own disgrace bewail .
what ,  would you make me mad ?
o noble judge!
masters ,  never speak ,  we charge you ,  let us obey you go with us .
so shows a snowy dove trooping with crows as yonder lady o'er her fellows shows .
i shall be pinched to death.
damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her, for i'll refer me to all things of sense, if she in chains of magic were not bound, whether a maid so tender, fair, and happy, so opposite to marriage that she shunn'd the wealthy, curled darlings of our nation, would ever have, to incur a general mock, run from her guardage to the sooty bosom of such a thing as thou—to fear, not to delight.
i’ll to my rest .
what’s his offense ?
i serve as good a man as you.
tarry ,  sweet beatrice .
therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion .
what's the matter?
well, wednesday is too soon.
alas ,  what ignorant sin have i committed ?
we look for you tomorrow .
how now ?
prithee, horatio, tell me one thing.
dry sorrow drinks our blood.
say ,  have i thy consent that they shall die ?
can you not stay awhile ?
here's a knocking indeed!
what have we here ?
nay ,  it is true ,  or else i am a turk .
let me say  “ amen ”  betimes ,  lest the devil cross my prayer ,  for here he comes in the likeness of a jew .
why do they run away?
alack the day ,  she's dead ,  she's dead ,  she's dead !
my most exquisite sir topas !
ay ,  my liege ,  so please you give us leave .
no more perchance does mine ,  nor his ,  nor hers .
speak no more of him; you’ll be whipped for taxation one of these days .
i pray you all ,  stand up .
what claim lays she to thee ?
never excuse; for when the players are all dead there need none to be blamed.
villains ,  you did not so when your vile daggers hacked one another in the sides of caesar .
now edmund ,  where’s the villain ?
no .
these words are not mine .
go to the pulpit ,  brutus .
if this prove a vision of the island ,  one dear son shall i twice lose .
most noble sir ,  arise .
yea ,  my lord ,  but i can cross it .
no watch ?
a very even way ,  but no such friend .
varro!
i do not set my life at a pin's fee; and for my soul ,  what can it do to that ,  being a thing immortal as itself ?
this diamond he greets your wife withal ,  by the name of most kind hostess ,  and shut up in measureless content .
you ,  uncivil lady ,  to whose ingrate and unauspicious altars my soul the faithfull’st off'rings have breathed out that e'er devotion tendered—what shall i do ?
sailors ,  my lord ,  they say .
yes ,  caliban her son .
he took my father grossly ,  full of bread ,  with all his crimes broad blown ,  as flush as may; and how his audit stands ,  who knows save heaven ?
couch we awhile ,  and mark .
i pray thee mark me .
what were these ?
my lady grey his wife ,  clarence ,  ’tis she that tempers him to this extremity .
if i myself ,  there is no hour so fit as caesar’s death’s hour ,  nor no instrument of half that worth as those your swords ,  made rich with the most noble blood of all this world .
white his shroud as the mountain snow— alas, look here, my lord!
why should i, mother?
pindarus ,  bid our commanders lead their charges off a little from this ground .
save his majesty !
they have made worms' meat of me .
go ,  go ,  you question with a wicked tongue .
will you walk ,  sir ? —o desdemona— my lord ?
who commands them, sir?
no ,  indeed ,  my lord .
you are too hot .
o tranio ,  till i found it to be true ,  i never thought it possible or likely .
i do beseech you ,  sir ,  have patience .
not yet .  ”       the hour’s now come .
well ,  thou shalt see ,  thy eyes shall be thy judge ,  the difference of old shylock and bassanio:— what ,  jessica ! —thou shalt not gormandise ,  as thou hast done with me;—what ,  jessica ! — and sleep ,  and snore ,  and rend apparel out;— why ,  jessica ,  i say !
make us thy ministers of chastisement ,  that we may praise thee in the victory !
the time ’twixt six and now must by us both be spent most preciously .
i’ll not endure it .
but with much forcing of his disposition .
i pause for a reply.
why ,  every day ,  tomorrow .
what noise is here ?
will his vouchers vouch him no more of his purchases ,  and double ones too ,  than the length and breadth of a pair of indentures ?
who is there ?
juliet ! —fast ,  i warrant her ,  she . — why ,  lamb !
there's something in his soul o'er which his melancholy sits on brood; and i do doubt the hatch and the disclose will be some danger; which for to prevent, i have in quick determination thus set it down: he shall with speed to england for the demand of our neglected tribute.
but adieu .
all our service in every point twice done ,  and then done double ,  were poor and single business to contend against those honors deep and broad wherewith your majesty loads our house .
it is not lost ,  but what and if it were ?
how now, sweet queen?
therefore ,  o antony ,  stay not by his side .
tell me, heavenly bow, if venus or her son, as thou dost know, do now attend the queen.
is in his retirement marvelous distempered .
haply your eye shall light upon some toy you have desire to purchase ,  and your store ,  i think ,  is not for idle markets ,  sir .
gentlemen ,  you are welcome to elsinore .
i have offended reputation ,  a most unnoble swerving .
o sir ,  such a life with such a wife were strange !
tomorrow we’ll hear ourselves again .
i would not change this hue except to steal your thoughts ,  my gentle queen .
armed ,  brother ?
o, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!
pretty too !
ha !
not th’ imperious show of the full - fortuned caesar ever shall be brooched with me .
nay ,  you must call me rosalind . —come ,  sister ,  will you go ?
beshrew your eyes ,  they have o'erlook'd me ,  and divided me; one half of me is yours ,  the other half yours , — mine own ,  i would say; but if mine ,  then yours ,  and so ,  all yours: o !
this will put them out of fear .
believe me ,  sir ,  it carries a brave form .
a norman was't?
a man that all his time hath founded his good fortunes on your love, shared dangers with you— the handkerchief!
whence is that knocking?
lives he ,  good uncle ?
i hope now thou art not drowned .
the duke must grant me that .
a grandam’s name is little less in love than is the doting title of a mother .
lechery !
demetrius ,  i will keep my word with thee .
i am sorry thou wilt leave my father so .
the rate— well ,  shylock ,  shall we be beholding to you ?
tis good we do so.
tis cinna .
saints do not move ,  though grant for prayers’ sake .
this tyrant ,  whose sole name blisters our tongues ,  was once thought honest .
sir paris ,  i will make a desperate tender of my child's love .
i am not treacherous.
come to my woman's breasts ,  and take my milk for gall ,  you murdering ministers ,  wherever in your sightless substances you wait on nature's mischief !
here ,  sir ,  but trouble him not .
o mischief ,  thou art swift to enter in the thoughts of desperate men !
proceed you in your tears.
so out went the candle and we were left darkling .
yet poor old heart ,  he holp the heavens to rain .
come, recreant, come, thou child; i'll whip thee with a rod.
he is coming .
o, come in, emilia.
good morrow ,  sweet hero .
the sight whereof i think you had from me ,  from claudio and the prince .
and died so ?
belike they had some notice of the people, how i had moved them.
come hither ,  herald . —let the trumpet sound , — and read out this .
long live the king !
but thou art not quickly moved to strike .
o villain ,  villain ,  smiling ,  damned villain !
what, mistress!
the meantime ,  lady ,  i’ll raise the preparation of a war shall stain your brother .
do not doubt ,  cassio ,  but i will have my lord and you again as friendly as you were .
as he shall smile ,  othello shall go mad .
grant their lawful suit .
be silent.
lest it make you choleric and purchase me another dry basting .
go seek the traitor gloucester .
have you a mind to sink?
do you go back dismay'd?
farewell.
o !
all this ?
your goods that lay at host ,  sir ,  in the centaur .
o lord ,  they fight !
and the queen too ,  and that presently .
in ,  or we are spoiled .
tell me your counsels ,  i will not disclose em .
good sir—
to what ,  my love ,  shall i compare thine eyne ?
but i remember now i am in this earthly world ,  where to do harm is often laudable ,  to do good sometime accounted dangerous folly .
do you not hear him ?
tis here !
perchance 'twill walk again .
i have inly wept, or should have spoke ere this.
peace !
he is very busy about it .
committed !
but i’ll go in .
i might ask you for your commission ,  but i do take thee ,  orlando ,  for my husband .
tell them that you know that hero loves me .
who could refrain ,  that had a heart to love ,  and in that heart courage to make ’s love known ?
then ,  in the name of god and all these rights ,  advance your standards .
shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly .
no more words .
i must eat my dinner .
on each side her stood pretty dimpled boys ,  like smiling cupids ,  with divers - colored fans ,  whose wind did seem to glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool ,  and what they undid did .
peace ,  who comes here ?
bemonster not thy feature .
i'll tear her all to pieces.
no ,  by this hand .
false - boding woman ,  end thy frantic curse ,  lest to thy harm thou move our patience .
welcome ,  iago .
how like you the young german ,  the duke of saxony's nephew ?
what speech ,  my good lord ?
such comfort as do lusty young men feel when well-apparell'd april on the heel of limping winter treads, even such delight among fresh female buds shall you this night inherit at my house.
come, let me wipe thy face.
you must not ,  sir ,  mistake my niece .
what was he that you followed with your sword?
go one ,  and call the jew into the court .
we all expect a gentle answer, jew.
ah ,  dear juliet ,  why art thou yet so fair ?
he lies not like the living .
show me a mistress that is passing fair ,  what doth her beauty serve but as a note where i may read who pass'd that passing fair ?
but let it rest . —now ,  litio ,  to you .
a certain aim he took at a fair vestal thronèd by the west ,  and loosed his love shaft smartly from his bow as it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts .
i have none .
you’ve said ,  sir .
possess them not with fear .
prepare we for our marriage; on which day ,  my lord of burgundy ,  we’ll take your oath ,  and all the peers' ,  for surety of our leagues .
then murder’s out of tune ,  and sweet revenge grows harsh .
no ,  believe me .
i am young ,  but something you may deserve of him through me ,  and wisdom to offer up a weak ,  poor ,  innocent lamb t' appease an angry god .
where be your gibes now ?
peace!
welcome ,  good robin .
take up my mistress' gown to his master’s use !
what man art thou that ,  thus bescreened in night ,  so stumblest on my counsel ?
whereby hangs a tale ,  sir ?
what is't you say?
farewell ,  hostess .
are not you he that frights the maidens of the villagery ,  skim milk ,  and sometimes labor in the quern ,  and bootless make the breathless housewife churn ,  and sometime make the drink to bear no barm ,  mislead night - wanderers ,  laughing at their harm ?
renownèd duke ,  vouchsafe to take the pains to go with us into the abbey here and hear at large discoursed all our fortunes ,  and all that are assembled in this place that by this sympathizèd one day’s error have suffered wrong .
i escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors heaved o'erboard—by this bottle, which i made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands since i was cast ashore.
this is well.
i think you are all mated or stark mad .
i took him to be killed with a thunder-stroke.
he is ready at the door .
methinks it sounds a parley to provocation .
weapons ,  arms ?
the canker galls the infants of the spring too oft before their buttons be disclosed ,  and in the morn and liquid dew of youth contagious blastments are most imminent .
therefore ,  hear me ,  hermia .
for this night ,  to bed ,  and dream on the event .
and when the cross blue lightning seemed to open the breast of heaven ,  i did present myself even in the aim and very flash of it .
beautiful tyrant !
god grant that some ,  less noble and less loyal ,  nearer in bloody thoughts ,  and not in blood ,  deserve not worse than wretched clarence did ,  and yet go current from suspicion .
rumble thy bellyful !
give me your hand .
how now ,  sir ?
to't again ,  come !
bid them all fly .
speak .
the ides of march are come.
behold it stained with his most noble blood .
sound them ,  it doth become the mouth as well .
and so return to you ,  and nothing else ?
i will be mild and gentle in my words .
he cannot be heard of .
not i ,  my lord ,  by heaven !
these growing feathers plucked from caesar’s wing will make him fly an ordinary pitch ,  who else would soar above the view of men and keep us all in servile fearfulness .
cast it off !
why ,  look you how you storm !
how infinite in faculty !
be not afraid; she shall not harm thee, helena.
i will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee .
it shall advantage more than do us wrong .
farewell ,  farewell !
ay .
here is for thy pains .
let me be clear of thee .
it was the very day that young hamlet was born—he that is mad, and sent into england.
as i did stand my watch upon the hill ,  i look'd toward birnam ,  and anon ,  methought ,  the wood began to move .
naked in bed ,  iago ,  and not mean harm !
fled to england ?
it was mere foolery; i did not mark it.
gloucester ,  ’tis true that we are in great danger .
repent not you that you shall lose your friend ,  and he repents not that he pays your debt; for ,  if the jew do cut but deep enough ,  i'll pay it instantly with all my heart .
the earth that's nature's mother is her tomb .
then ,  since the case so stands as now it doth ,  i think it best you married with the county .
how now, roderigo!
come ,  blade ,  my breast imbrue .
dost thou say so ?
come ,  let’s do so .
you know sometimes he walks four hours together here in the lobby .
art rich ?
are you acquainted with the difference that holds this present question in the court?
cast it off .
affliction is enamour’d of thy parts ,  and thou art wedded to calamity .
nod to him ,  elves ,  and do him courtesies .
but as well ?
i would i knew not why it should be slow'd.
i should make very forges of my cheeks ,  that would to cinders burn up modesty ,  did i but speak thy deeds .
i will withdraw; but this intrusion shall ,  now seeming sweet ,  convert to bitt'rest gall .
a challenge, on my life.
is all our company here ?
never ,  my lord .
o ,  i am slain !
good my lord ,  how does your honour for this many a day ?
what says my lord?
marry ,  i will; and this is wisely done .
this was not counterfeit .
belike his wife ,  acquainted with his fits ,  on purpose shut the doors against his way .
yet his means are in supposition .
far from this country pindarus shall run, where never roman shall take note of him.
and for that purpose i'll anoint my sword .
twas where you wooed the gentlewoman so well .
it is the blessèd sun .
you gave us the counterfeit fairly last night .
i never knew a florentine more kind and honest.
o brave new world that has such people in't!
what ,  dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel ,  and soothe the devil that i warn thee from ?
alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
i am a spirit of no common rate; the summer still doth tend upon my state; and i do love thee; therefore ,  go with me .
to what, my love, shall i compare thine eyne?
for taking one’s part that’s out of favor .
i do not like her name .
now follows, that you know, young fortinbras, holding a weak supposal of our worth, or thinking by our late dear brother's death our state to be disjoint and out of frame, colleagued with this dream of his advantage, he hath not fail'd to pester us with message, importing the surrender of those lands lost by his father, with all bonds of law, to our most valiant brother.
ah ,  do not tear away thyself from me !
well ,  sir ,  my mistress is the sweetest lady . —lord ,  lord !
no ,  i warrant you .
which do not be entreated to ,  but weigh what it is worth embraced .
let their beds be made as soft as yours ,  and let their palates be season'd with such viands ?
no wonder ,  my lord .
take in your love ,  and then let me alone .
you have me ,  have you not ?
i hate the moor; and it is thought abroad that 'twixt my sheets he has done my office.
ah ,  my back ,  my back !
your serpent of egypt is bred now of your mud by the operation of your sun .
get on your nightgown ,  lest occasion call us and show us to be watchers .
his looks i fear ,  and his intents i doubt .
o ,  why rebuke you him that loves you so ?
a most ridiculous monster ,  to make a wonder of a poor drunkard .
oh ,  treason of the blood !
he is not the flower of courtesy, but, i'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb.
why ,  there thou say'st !
god save the worthy general!
behold this man .
all offices are open ,  and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven .
but ,  my good lord— wherefore should you do this ?
her father loved me ,  oft invited me ,  still questioned me the story of my life from year to year ,  the battles ,  sieges ,  fortunes ,  that i have passed .
ay, that i will; and i'll be wise hereafter, and seek for grace.
god ye good - den ,  fair gentlewoman .
my lord ,  the roinish clown ,  at whom so oft your grace was wont to laugh ,  is also missing .
run after that same peevish messenger ,  the county’s man .
look you how pale he glares !
why, man, i saw bassanio under sail; with him is gratiano gone along; and in their ship, i am sure, lorenzo is not.
not i .
while we reason here ,  a royal battle might be won and lost .
your songs ?
well, well, thou hast a careful father, child; one who, to put thee from thy heaviness, hath sorted out a sudden day of joy that thou expects not, nor i look'd not for.
that now sweno ,  the norways' king ,  craves composition .
the second cock hath crowed .
now ,  by heaven ,  my blood begins my safer guides to rule ,  and passion ,  having my best judgment collied ,  assays to lead the way .
no ,  make it two more .
soft !
give me that mattock and the wrenching iron .
here he comes ,  and the scots captain ,  captain jamy ,  with him .
no ,  not for venice .
and what hope is that, i pray thee?
what is your will ?
i anger her sometimes and tell her that paris is the properer man .
no remedy ,  my lord ,  when walls are so wilful to hear without warning .
can he be angry?
his own unkindness that stripped her from his benediction turned her to foreign casualties ,  gave her dear rights to his dog - hearted daughters .
how now?
no more of that .
with this there grows in my most ill-composed affection such a stanchless avarice that, were i king, i should cut off the nobles for their lands, desire his jewels and this other's house, and my more-having would be as a sauce to make me hunger more, that i should forge quarrels unjust against the good and loyal, destroying them for wealth.
pull't off ,  i say .
from all such devils ,  good lord ,  deliver us !
good morrow to this fair assembly .
with sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear ,  and draw her home with music .
i am peppered ,  i warrant ,  for this world .
i'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes ,  and leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts .
and i mine .
i chose her when i could not ask my father for his advice ,  nor thought i had one .
my old friend grumio and my good friend petruchio ?
all thy other titles thou hast given away that thou wast born with .
that, methinks, is strange.
why then, you left me,—o, the gods forbid!— in earnest, shall i say?
my children too ?
worthy montano, you were wont be civil; the gravity and stillness of your youth the world hath noted, and your name is great in mouths of wisest censure.
in some bush?
we have been up and down to seek him .
the west yet glimmers with some streaks of day; now spurs the lated traveller apace to gain the timely inn, and near approaches the subject of our watch.
tis as arrant a piece of knavery ,  mark you now ,  as can be offert ,  in your conscience now ,  is it not ?
but thou'rt too much my friend ,  and i’ll not wish thee to her .
go ,  some of you ,  and bring these gentlemen where hamlet is .
you know it is the feast of lupercal.
there sleeps titania sometime of the night ,  lulled in these flowers with dances and delight .
tis banquo's then.
he that conceals him ,  death .
dost thou hear ,  iago ?
a hundred marks ,  my kate does put her down .
o, lay me by my mistress’ side.
they bleed on both sides . —how is it ,  my lord ?
at supper.
i would i knew not why it should be slow'd .
oh ,  ’tish ill done ,  ’tish ill done ,  by my hand ,  ’tish ill done .
i crave the law ,  the penalty ,  and forfeit of my bond .
come hither ,  gentlemen ,  and lay your hands again upon my sword .
then love me ,  rosalind .
god made him, and therefore let him pass for a man.
we two alone will sing like birds i' th' cage .
yes ,  by heaven !
i now repent i told the pursuivant ,  as too triumphing ,  how mine enemies today at pomfret bloodily were butchered ,  and i myself secure in grace and favor .
the four strangers seek for you ,  madam ,  to take their leave: and there is a forerunner come from a fifth ,  the prince of morocco; who brings word ,  the prince ,  his master ,  will be here to - night .
he’ll fright you up ,  i' faith .
i have sent after him .
why ,  i can buy me twenty at any market .
there ,  my blessing with thee .
is this certain ?
nay, guiltiness will speak, though tongues were out of use.
a dry jest ,  sir .
some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest .
i pray you ,  what thinks he of our estate ?
i could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment.
rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
we'll not run, monsieur monster.
i may say  “ thrusting ”  it ,  for piercing steel and darts envenomed shall be as welcome to the ears of brutus as tidings of this sight .
like one of two contending in a prize ,  that thinks he hath done well in people's eyes ,  hearing applause and universal shout ,  giddy in spirit ,  still gazing in a doubt whether those peals of praise be his or no; so ,  thrice fair lady ,  stand i ,  even so; as doubtful whether what i see be true ,  until confirm'd ,  sign'd ,  ratified by you .
faith ,  he is posted hence on serious matter .
i will condole in some measure . —to the rest . —yet my chief humor is for a tyrant .
things at the worst will cease ,  or else climb upward to what they were before .
yes ,  madam ,  he was of that consort .
wherefore was that cry?
now counterfeit to swoon ,  why ,  now fall down; or if thou canst not ,  oh ,  for shame ,  for shame ,  lie not ,  to say mine eyes are murderers .
come, seek the conspirators.
peaseblossom .
boatswain !
but wherefore art not in thy shop today ?
when you do find him ,  or alive or dead ,  he will be found like brutus ,  like himself .
being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
how now!
what committed ?
grandam ,  one night as we did sit at supper ,  my uncle rivers talked how i did grow more than my brother:  “ ay ,  ”  quoth my uncle gloucester ,   “ small herbs have grace; great weeds do grow apace .  ”  and since ,  methinks i would not grow so fast because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste .
are not you lysander ?
for the intent and purpose of the law hath full relation to the penalty ,  which here appeareth due upon the bond .
i will do any thing ,  nerissa ,  ere i’ll be married to a sponge .
those that will hear me speak ,  let 'em stay here .
how now, roderigo!
go fetch fire.
is thy name tyrrel ?
good night—but go not to mine uncle’s bed .
soft !
clerk, draw a deed of gift.
look when i vow, i weep; and vows so born, in their nativity all truth appears.
behold the ordnance on their carriages ,  with fatal mouths gaping on girded harfleur .
filthy hags!
hence ,  get thee gone ,  and follow me no more .
what !
what, my good lord?
how now, my lord?
i have looked upon the world for four times seven years ,  and since i could distinguish betwixt a benefit and an injury ,  i never found man that knew how to love himself .
who now the price of his dear blood doth owe ?
can anything be made of this?
i see thy age and dangers make thee dote .
follow him ,  friends .
but if you have a stomach ,  to ’t ,  i' god’s name: you shall have me assisting you in all .
what's to be done?
i will be treble - sinewed ,   - hearted ,   - breathed ,  and fight maliciously .
for ,  look you ,  how cheerfully my mother looks ,  and my father died within's two hours .
the earl of pembroke keeps his regiment— good captain blunt ,  bear my goodnight to him ,  and by the second hour in the morning desire the earl to see me in my tent .
i like not fair terms and a villain's mind.
o heavens ,  that they were living both in naples ,  the king and queen there !
alas ,  what cry is that ?
a gentle scroll . —fair lady ,  by your leave: i come by note ,  to give and to receive .
to the death ,  my lord .
farewell .
fear me not.
reputation, reputation, reputation!
who set this ancient quarrel new abroach ?
shall we go see the relics of this town ?
if that thy bent of love be honourable ,  thy purpose marriage ,  send me word to - morrow ,  by one that i'll procure to come to thee ,  where and what time thou wilt perform the rite; and all my fortunes at thy foot i'll lay and follow thee my lord throughout the world .
had i but the means to hold a rival place with one of them, i have a mind presages me such thrift, that i should questionless be fortunate.
that which is now a horse ,  even with a thought the rack dislimns and makes it indistinct as water is in water .
o love!
i have stayed for thee ,  god knows ,  in torment and in agony .
why did i marry?
my father was no traitor .
you shall know more hereafter .
and he is a very paramour for a sweet voice .
i believe we must leave the killing out ,  when all is done .
cry but  “ ay me !  ”  pronounce but  “ love ”  and  “ dove .  ”  speak to my gossip venus one fair word ,  one nickname for her purblind son and heir ,  young abraham cupid ,  he that shot so true when king cophetua loved the beggar maid . — he heareth not ,  he stirreth not ,  he moveth not .
these times of woe afford no tune to woo .
canst thou blame him ?
treason !
most gracious duke, to my unfolding lend your prosperous ear.
methinks i see my cousin’s ghost seeking out romeo ,  that did spit his body upon a rapier’s point .
do you smell a fault ?
my lord ,  i did; but answer made it none .
the one is too like an image and says nothing ,  and the other too like my lady’s eldest son ,  evermore tattling .
peace ,  ho !
be quiet and depart .
lysander!
be ruled by me .
well ,  jove ,  not i ,  is the doer of this ,  and he is to be thanked .
parting is such sweet sorrow, that i shall say good night till it be morrow.
this blue - eyed hag was hither brought with child and here was left by th' sailors .
if he cannot ,  let the botcher mend him .
yet i persuade myself to speak the truth shall nothing wrong him .
i have told thee often ,  and i re - tell thee again and again ,  i hate the moor .
we’ll speak with thee at sea .
now all labor mars what it does .
i pray thee mark me.
royal lear ,  whom i have ever honored as my king ,  loved as my father ,  as my master followed ,  as my great patron thought on in my prayers— the bow is bent and drawn .
revenges burn in them ,  for their dear causes would to the bleeding and the grim alarm excite the mortified man .
caesar ,  ’tis strucken eight .
did you perceive how he laughed at his vice?
have done thy charm ,  thou hateful ,  withered hag .
there is no harm intended to your person ,  nor to no roman else .
because their business still lies out o' door .
ay .
if a jew wrong a christian, what is his humility?
if god will be avengèd for this deed ,  o ,  know you yet he doth it publicly !
what fray was here?
my lord, as i was sewing in my closet, lord hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced, no hat upon his head, his stockings fouled, ungartered, and down-gyved to his ankle; pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other, and with a look so piteous in purport as if he had been loosed out of hell to speak of horrors, he comes before me.
my child ,  my only life !
are not these woods more free from peril than the envious court ?
now i'll tell you without asking .
what is his name ?
he was a man ,  take him for all in all; i shall not look upon his like again .
what ,  art thou come ? —on ,  gentlemen ,  away !
is thy news good or bad?
what is't you do?
oh ,  thy vile lady !
good gentlemen ,  give him a further edge and drive his purpose on to these delights .
wherefore rejoice?
oh ,  this false soul of egypt !
sweet friends ,  your patience for my long abode .
this ,  this all souls' day to my fearful soul is the determined respite of my wrongs .
and when she is froward ,  peevish ,  sullen ,  sour ,  and not obedient to his honest will ,  what is she but a foul contending rebel and graceless traitor to her loving lord ?
where is he?
so please you ,  let me now be left alone ,  and let the nurse this night sit up with you; for i am sure you have your hands full all in this so sudden business .
thou shalt not back till i have borne this corse into the marketplace .
i grant i am a woman, but withal a woman that lord brutus took to wife.
good morrow ,  masters .
i cannot speak to her ,  yet she urged conference .
for your part ,  to you our swords have leaden points ,  mark antony .
gracious england hath lent us good siward and ten thousand men; an older and a better soldier none that christendom gives out .
hark thee ,  clitus .
that which you are ,  my thoughts cannot transpose .
there's a daisy .
huntsman ,  i charge thee ,  tender well my hounds .
go ,  one ,  and call the jew into the court .
when we were boys, who would believe that there were mountaineers dewlapped like bulls, whose throats had hanging at ’em wallets of flesh?
nay ,  he will answer the letter's master ,  how he dares ,  being dared .
come ,  friar francis ,  be brief ,  only to the plain form of marriage ,  and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards .
i am the son of marcus cato ,  ho !
our wars are done .
tis very like .
i am thane of cawdor .
tut ,  i like it not .
a diamond gone, cost me two thousand ducats in frankfort!
see these letters delivered; put the liveries to making; and desire gratiano to come anon to my lodging.
o excellent!
i' faith ,  i' faith ,  and both in a tune like two gypsies on a horse .
he’s bound unto octavia .
come ,  let’s away .
gave it a judge's clerk ! —no ,  god's my judge !
montano and myself being in speech, there comes a fellow crying out for help, and cassio following him with determined sword, to execute upon him.
ay ,  every inch a king .
comes his army on ?
they that reap must sheaf and bind ,  then to cart with rosalind .
fie, demetrius!
and if it stand ,  as you yourself still do ,  within the eye of honor ,  be assured my purse ,  my person ,  my extremest means lie all unlocked to your occasions .
what do you mean ,  my lord ?
tomorrow is the joyful day ,  audrey .
othello ?
will you tear impatient answers from my gentle tongue ?
queen margaret saw thy murd'rous falchion smoking in his blood ,  the which thou once didst bend against her breast ,  but that thy brothers beat aside the point .
husband ?
nothing ,  my lord .
thou dost ,  and think’st it much to tread the ooze of the salt deep ,  to run upon the sharp wind of the north ,  to do me business in the veins o' th' earth when it is baked with frost .
give me some little breath ,  some pause ,  dear lord ,  before i positively speak in this .
go a little before .
then show it me .
sirs ,  let ’t alone .
but screw your courage to the sticking-place, and we'll not fail.
how ?
the very head and front of my offending hath this extent ,  no more .
whose was it ?
o, he lights too.
appear and pertly ! — no tongue .
both your majesties might ,  by the sovereign power you have of us ,  put your dread pleasures more into command than to entreaty .
you are he ,  you are he .
canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes a while, and touch thy instrument a strain or two?
as of a man faithful and honourable .
a very fine one .
peter !
is this the noble moor whom our full senate call all in all sufficient ?
our duty to your honour.
the wolves have preyed ,  and look ,  the gentle day ,  before the wheels of phoebus ,  round about dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey .
what ,  thou meanest an officer ?
iago is most honest .
back do i toss these treasons to thy head ,  with the hell - hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart—
come, bring me where they are.
you know that you are brutus that speaks this, or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
what of that ?
this visitation is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
i cry your worships mercy ,  heartily; i beseech your worship's name .
if thou didst it ,  thou art the nonpareil .
her length of sickness ,  with what else more serious importeth thee to know ,  this bears .
i do now let loose my opinion ,  hold it no longer: this is no fish ,  but an islander that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt .
not i' th' stocks ,  fool .
here comes newer comfort .
i found not cassio’s kisses on her lips .
the dearest ring in venice will i give you, and find it out by proclamation; only for this i pray you pardon me.
our house is hell ,  and thou ,  a merry devil ,  didst rob it of some taste of tediousness .
this grisly beast, which lion hight by name, the trusty thisbe, coming first by night, did scare away, or rather did affright; and as she fled, her mantle she did fall; which lion vile with bloody mouth did stain.
i have a suit to you .
come hither ,  nurse .
i pray thee ,  get us some excellent music ,  for tomorrow night we would have it at the lady hero’s chamber window
the town is beseeched ,  and the trumpet call us to the breach ,  and we talk and ,  be chrish ,  do nothing ,  ’tis shame for us all .
hum, i have heard that guilty creatures, sitting at a play, have by the very cunning of the scene been struck so to the soul that presently they have proclaim'd their malefactions; for murder, though it have no tongue, will speak with most miraculous organ, i'll have these players play something like the murder of my father before mine uncle.
to fetch her fan ,  her gloves ,  her mask ,  nor nothing ?
tis no time to play now .
tomorrow dinner then ?
they are friends ,  ratcliffe and lovell .
but do not go with it .
the gain i seek is quiet in the match .
there’s strange news come ,  sir .
pray you ,  let's have no more fooling about it ,  but give me your blessing; i am launcelot ,  your boy that was ,  your son that is ,  your child that shall be .
they say the owl was a baker's daughter.
it may be i shall raise you by and by on business to my brother cassius .
death ,  that hath sucked the honey of thy breath ,  hath had no power yet upon thy beauty .
if to have done the thing you gave in charge beget your happiness ,  be happy then ,  for it is done .
brown ,  madam ,  and her forehead as low as she would wish it .
macbeth shall never vanquished be until great birnam wood to high dunsinane hill shall come against him .
i am satisfied .
my lord ,  you know i love you .
which way ran he that killed mercutio ?
now fear i this will give it start again .
yet it was said it should not stand in thy posterity ,  but that myself should be the root and father of many kings .
scurvy knave !
words without thoughts never to heaven go .
and mine ,  two hundred .
forswear it ,  sight !
oh !
thus far with rough and all - unable pen our bending author hath pursued the story ,  in little room confining mighty men ,  mangling by starts the full course of their glory .
it was well done ,  and thou shalt sleep again .
from helmet to the spur ,  all blood he was .
here ,  kiss the book .
our good old friend ,  lay comforts to your bosom ,  and bestow your needful counsel to our business ,  which craves the instant use .
i have as much of this in art as you ,  but yet my nature could not bear it so .
this grave shall have a living monument.
i will do ’t ,  my lord .
tybalt, the kinsman to old capulet, hath sent a letter to his father's house.
which of you have done this ?
my husband say that she was false!
tis very true .
if he do ,  sure he cannot weep ’t back again .
examples gross as earth exhort me.
say, what, is horatio there?
have you the chain about you ?
not that i know.
my master’s a very jew .
marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
and hath challenged thee ?
thy grace shall have it.
the four strangers seek for you ,  madam ,  to take their leave .
madam ,  good night; i humbly thank your ladyship .
knock ,  sir ?
very brief ,  and to exceeding good sense—less .
it’s the wind .
for divers unknown reasons ,  i beseech you ,  grant me this boon .
i prithee ,  do so .
give me a case to put my visage in.
master, young gentleman, i pray you which is the way to master jew's?
give me leave ,  caesar .
dead!
antonio never yet was thief or pirate ,  though ,  i confess ,  on base and ground enough ,  orsino’s enemy .
they would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor .
good my lord ,  put your discourse into some frame ,  and start not so wildly from my affair .
downy windows ,  close ,
where art thou, pindarus?
hush !
a plague o' both your houses !
no ,  no ,  by god’s good grace ,  his son shall reign .
if this be known, cassius or caesar never shall turn back, for i will slay myself.
why ,  fare thee well ,  king .
o, pardon me; ‘twill do me good to walk.
o my lord!
yes ,  for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle ,  and i would call it fair play .
perhaps you have learned it without book .
ah ,  where's my man ?
the man should be put into the lanthorn .
why ,  no; but sadly tell me who .
let it come down .
what think’st thou ?
it is the best horse of europe .
the spirits that know all mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:  “ fear not ,  macbeth .
as kill a king?
by my troth ,  a pleasant - spirited lady .
and squabble?
come ,  charmian .
th' ambassadors from norway ,  my good lord ,  are joyfully returned .
demetrius is a worthy gentleman .
this shall forbid it.
we do ,  my lord .
say i am sick .
my liege ,  they are not yet come back .
alack the day !
fare you well ,  my lord .
thy wild acts denote the unreasonable fury of a beast .
now am i dead ,  now am i fled; my soul is in the sky .
called you ,  my lord ?
no ,  my lord .
so haply slander whose whisper o'er the world's diameter ,  as level as the cannon to his blank ,  transports his poisoned shot ,  may miss our name and hit the woundless air . —o ,  come away !
ay ,  my lord .
murder !
have at thee, coward!
now will he sit under a medlar tree and wish his mistress were that kind of fruit as maids call medlars when they laugh alone.
what private griefs they have ,  alas ,  i know not ,  that made them do it .
my noble partner you greet with present grace and great prediction of noble having and of royal hope, that he seems rapt withal.
have mind upon your health ,  tempt me no further .
nay ,  but beatrice— sweet hero ,  she is wronged ,  she is slandered ,  she is undone .
the attempt and not the deed confounds us .
these are gracious drops .
and so will i .
away!
but new struck nine.
change you color ?
my will ,  not all the world !
yet i insisted; yet you answered not ,  but with an angry wafture of your hand gave sign for me to leave you .
by heaven ,  i saw my handkerchief in ‘s hand .
but better service have i never done you than now to bid you hold .
then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth, a million fail, confounding oath on oath.
you may as well do anything most hard ,  as seek to soften that—than which what’s harder ? — his jewish heart .
hear antony, most noble antony!
if this had not been a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' christian burial.
give you good night .
though he be as good a gentleman as the devil is ,  as lucifer and beelzebub himself ,  it is necessary ,  look your grace ,  that he keep his vow and his oath .
o sun ,  thy uprise shall i see no more .
thy false uncle— dost thou attend me ?
abide within .
there’s dolabella sent from caesar .
still in this fashion ,  color ,  ornament ,  for him i imitate .
o blessed, blessed night!
myself have to mine own turned enemy .
now he importunes him to tell it o'er .
oh ,  now you weep ,  and ,  i perceive ,  you feel the dint of pity .
upon the talk of the poisoning ?
disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes ,  misprizing what they look on ,  and her wit values itself so highly that to her all matter else seems weak .
reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit and lost without deserving.
benvolio ,  who began this bloody fray ?
why sweat they under burdens ?
ha ! —where ?
who ,  hero ?
even then this forkèd plague is fated to us when we do quicken .
o heavy lightness !
i am sorry thou wilt leave my father so; our house is hell ,  and thou ,  a merry devil ,  didst rob it of some taste of tediousness: but fare thee well: there is a ducat for thee .
why, i said nothing.
i am ready now .
he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in pyramus ,  or nothing .
ere he do leave this grove ,  thou shalt fly him and he shall seek thy love .
let them curtsy with their left legs ,  and not presume to touch a hair of my master’s horse - tail till they kiss their hands .
then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es and dupp'd the chamber door, let in the maid, that out a maid never departed more.
i have done ill ,  of which i do accuse myself so sorely that i will joy no more .
nay ,  i am sure it is ,  volumnius .
farewell .
to sebastian] why, in good time.
why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter ?
widow dido !
i am very glad of it: i'll plague him; i'll torture him; i am glad of it.
o ,  wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied ?
now is he for the numbers that petrarch flowed in .
you were kneeled to an importuned otherwise by all of us ,  and the fair soul herself weighed between loathness and obedience at which end o'th’ beam should bow .
you can play no part but pyramus; for pyramus is a sweet-faced man; a proper man, as one shall see in a summer's day; a most lovely gentleman-like man; therefore you must needs play pyramus.
go ,  philostrate ,  stir up the athenian youth to merriments; awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth; turn melancholy forth to funerals; the pale companion is not for our pomp .
why have you left the chamber?
there be that can rule naples as well as he that sleeps ,  lords that can prate as amply and unnecessarily as this gonzalo; i myself could make a chough of as deep chat .
what soldiers ,  patch ?
she told her, while she kept it, 'twould make her amiable and subdue my father entirely to her love, but if she lost it or made a gift of it, my father's eye should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt after new fancies.
i could interpret between you and your love ,  if i could see the puppets dallying .
but where is he?
this is the matter—nurse ,  give leave awhile ,  we must talk in secret .
most sure and vulgar .
it is judgement maim'd and most imperfect ,  that will confess perfection so could err against all rules of nature ,  i therefore vouch again ,  that with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood ,  or with some dram conjured to this effect ,  he wrought upon her .
what wound did ever heal but by degrees ?
let me be your servant .
o happy fair !
but that’s all one: omittance is no quittance .
thou shouldst be honest .
now, afore god, this reverend holy friar, all our whole city is much bound to him.
sometime she gallops o'er a courtier’s nose ,  and then dreams he of smelling out a suit .
most lamentable day, most woeful day that ever ever i did yet behold!
his neigh is like the bidding of a monarch ,  and his countenance enforces homage .
romeo!
caesar gets money where he loses hearts .
is this your speeding ?
humours !
harry le roy .
god help the noble claudio !
where are all the rest ?
what's thy pleasure ?
be wise, and get you home.
since the torch is out ,  lie down and stray no farther .
wherefore speaks he this to her he hates ?
you are welcome, gentlemen!
oh ,  these men ,  these men !
yet touch this sparingly ,  as ’twere far off ,  because ,  my lord ,  you know my mother lives .
now is that noble vessel full of grief, that it runs over even at his eyes.
ay ,  that i will; and i'll be wise hereafter ,  and seek for grace .
but come ,  my lord ,  let’s away .
all the conspirators ,  save only he ,  did that they did in envy of great caesar; he only ,  in a general honest thought and common good to all ,  made one of them .
dead art thou ,  dead !
now ,  fellow ,  what is there ?
come with a thought .
the selfsame name ,  but one of better nature .
let him approach .
he is now in some commerce with my lady and will by and by depart .
the lady of the strachy married the yeoman of the wardrobe .
his answer was ,  the people were not used to be spoke to but by the recorder .
i know not by what power i am made bold nor how it may concern my modesty in such a presence here to plead my thoughts ,  but i beseech your grace that i may know the worst that may befall me in this case ,  if i refuse to wed demetrius .
poor prattler ,  how thou talk’st !
moon - calf ,  speak once in thy life ,  if thou beest a good moon - calf .
what is this ?
go ,  some of you; whoe'er you find attach .
my arm is sore .
she speaks .
let me come to her .
you come not like caesar’s sister .
what less than doomsday is the prince's doom?
i have no will to wander forth of doors ,  yet something leads me forth .
as much to him ,  else is his thanks too much .
fear not my government .
i' faith ,  i fear it has .
we took him for a coward ,  but he’s the very devil incardinate .
i’ll not be forsworn .
too much of water hast thou, poor ophelia, and therefore i forbid my tears; but yet it is our trick; nature her custom holds, let shame say what it will.
they swore you did .
they shouted thrice.
you would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music ,  excellent voice ,  in this little organ ,  yet cannot you make it speak .
this?
is it so brave a lass ?
why should not i then prosecute my right ?
and i am your rosalind .
why do you make such faces ?
why ,  is not this better now than groaning for love ?
it is no shame .
think ,  when we talk of horses ,  that you see them printing their proud hoofs i' th' receiving earth ,  for ’tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings ,  carry them here and there ,  jumping o'er times ,
he was a bachelor then .
the fit is momentary; upon a thought he will again be well .
we are the makers of manners ,  kate ,  and the liberty that follows our places stops the mouth of all find -  faults ,  as i will do yours for upholding the nice fashion of your country in denying me a kiss .
nay, that's not your way.
dolabella ,  i shall remain your debtor .
not proud you have, but thankful that you have.
a very mean meaning .
good fool ,  some ink ,  paper ,  and light ,  and convey what i will set down to my lady .
signor antonio commends him to you .
what friend?
through the forest have i gone ,  but athenian found i none ,  on whose eyes i might approve this flower's force in stirring love .
sblood ,  do you think i am easier to be played on than a pipe ?
my master's a very jew.
a soldier ,  and afeard ?
sick ,  oh ,  sick !
father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
are not you a strumpet?
my husband !
i have drunk poison whiles he uttered it .
i know no touch of it, my lord.
would ?
is it so long ? — call forth the holy father .
the more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends.
here was he merry ,  hearing of a song .
welcome ,  gentlemen !
i did consent ,  and often did beguile her of her tears when i did speak of some distressful stroke that my youth suffer'd .
come ,  shall i make you two friends ?
but where is kate ?
purpose is but the slave to memory, of violent birth, but poor validity; which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree, but fall unshaken when they mellow be.
sirrah ,  come hither: ’tis no time to jest ,  and therefore frame your manners to the time .
in kent ,  my liege ,  the guilfords are in arms ,  and every hour more competitors flock to the rebels ,  and their power grows strong .
i do; and surely it is a sleepy language and thou speak'st out of thy sleep .
who is here so vile that will not love his country ?
not ?
post to salisbury .
is my father well ?
there are the players .
and pardon me ,  my gentle gratiano; for that same scrubbed boy ,  the doctor's clerk ,  in lieu of this last night did lie with me .
are you our daughter ?
o ,  much i fear some ill unlucky thing .
fled to england?
are they so followed?
why ,  you must not speak that yet .
to antonio] as many [to adrian] that our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  [to adrian] that our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  drenched in the sea ,  hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses ,  being rather new - dyed than stained with salt water .
a thousand thanks ,  signior gremio .
the king is a thing— a thing ,  my lord ?
may a man do it ?
no marvel ,  lord ,  though it affrighted you .
am i not stay'd for ,  cinna ?
see ,  see ,  our honored hostess !
god speed fair helena!
if this were true, then should i know this secret.
therefore speak .
now ,  my lord constable ?
i pray you haste in this .
faith, half asleep.
i see, sir, you are liberal in offers: you taught me first to beg; and now, methinks, you teach me how a beggar should be answer'd.
here stands the man—good.
pray you, sit still.
i’ll play the housewife for this once .
the date is out of such prolixity .
what an eye she has!
i will bestow you where you shall have time to speak your bosom freely .
there is none but he whose being i do fear ,  and under him my genius is rebuked ,  as it is said mark antony’s was by caesar .
o deadly sin !
i come to bury caesar ,  not to praise him .
but this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband:—o me, the word choose!
as i discern ,  it burneth in the capels' monument .
nay, but he prated and spoke such scurvy and provoking terms against your honor that, with the little godliness i have, i did full hard forbear him.
may one be pardoned and retain th' offense ?
both of you know banquo was your enemy.
thou detestable maw ,  thou womb of death ,  gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth ,  thus i enforce thy rotten jaws to open ,  and in despite i'll cram thee with more food .
what other bond than secret romans that have spoke the word and will not palter?
o love, be moderate.
adieu!—tears exhibit my tongue.
my lord ?
thou dost not wish more help from england ,  coz ?
i am in my condition a prince ,  miranda—i do think ,  a king; i would ,  not so ! —and would no more endure this wooden slavery than to suffer the flesh - fly blow my mouth .
and for cassio, let me be his undertaker.
come ,  in what key shall a man take you to go in the song ?
thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report .
peter ,  stay at the gate .
wherefore?
but yet you draw not iron ,  for my heart is true as steel .
all this done ,  repair to pompey's porch ,  where you shall find us .
that will never be .
o sisters three ,  come ,  come to me ,  with hands as pale as milk; lay them in gore ,  since you have shore with shears his thread of silk .
fulvia thy wife first came into the field .
why ,  man ?
why should he call her whore ?
arise ,  fair sun ,  and kill the envious moon ,  who is already sick and pale with grief that thou her maid art far more fair than she .
how?
get you to church ,  and have a good priest that can tell you what marriage is .
here's decius brutus ,  he shall tell them so .
let us come in ,  that we may bind him fast and bear him home for his recovery .
nay, then, thou mock'st me.
what, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
i am dumb .
how am i false ?
into the air, and what seem'd corporal melted as breath into the wind.
he is afeard to come .
are they so followed ?
you are welcome .
or shall i think in silver she's immur'd, being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
then be thou jocund.
why, i will see thee at philippi then.
good my lord ,  will you see the players well bestow'd ?
only be patient till we have appeased the multitude ,  beside themselves with fear ,  and then we will deliver you the cause ,  why i ,  that did love caesar when i struck him ,  have thus proceeded .
it is engender'd .
marry ,  god defend his grace should say us nay !
where is your sister ,  and hortensio’s wife ?
how is't, my noble lord?
hie thee ,  gentle jew .
have i not reason ,  beldams as you are ?
marry ,  for my part ,  i think the duke hath lost never a man ,  but one that is like to be executed for robbing a church ,  one bardolph ,  if your majesty know the man .
answer me like men .
everyone hears that that can distinguish sound .
you must contrary me .
the thane of cawdor lives.
i never knew a woman love man so .
ay, and wall too.
where dost thou hide thy head?
be as thou wast wont to be; see as thou was wont to see.
the king, the king's to blame.
o ,  well done !
how lush and lusty the grass looks !
this guest of summer ,  the temple - haunting martlet ,  does approve by his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath smells wooingly here .
hath not a jew hands ,  organs ,  dimensions ,  senses ,  affections ,  passions ?
i can tell you ,  but young romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him .
then fate o'er - rules ,  that ,  one man holding troth ,  a million fail ,  confounding oath on oath .
therefore they thought it good you hear a play and frame your mind to mirth and merriment ,  which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life .
so would not i .
methinks i could not die anywhere so contented as in the king’s company ,  his cause being just and his quarrel honorable .
truly ,  and i hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow’s shadow .
robin starveling ,  the tailor ?
if it please you .
ay .
tis he that sends us to destroy you here .
nay ,  i have offered all ,  i have no more ,  and she can have no more than all i have .
there is time enough .
nurse— ah sir!
my advocation is not now in tune; my lord is not my lord, nor should i know him were he in favor as in humor alter'd.
i will, and know her mind early to-morrow; to-night she's mew'd up to her heaviness.
come, merchant, have you any thing to say?
all ?
she took the ring of me .
we will be satisfied !
but by sea he is an absolute master .
even now ,  now ,  very now ,  an old black ram is tupping your white ewe .
the testament !
ay ,  my good lord .
some men there are love not a gaping pig ,  some that are mad if they behold a cat ,  and others ,  when the bagpipe sings i' th' nose ,  cannot contain their urine .
and doubt not ,  sir ,  but she will well excuse why at this time the doors are made against you .
where is he ?
good lads ,  how do ye both ?
canst work i' the earth so fast ?
caesar ?
i’ll pheeze you ,  in faith .
marvellous sweet music!
o perdurable shame !
set you down this ,
are you my wife and will not call me  “ husband ”  ?
those that macbeth hath slain .
o earth!
how now ,  my headstrong ?
i'll know his humor when he knows his time.
a fourth !
it shall advantage more than do us wrong.
women grow by men .
naught that i am ,  not for their own demerits ,  but for mine ,  fell slaughter on their souls .
soft you now !
brother john bates ,  is not that the morning which breaks yonder ?
and for mine own part ,  i durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving the bad air .
o love ,  be moderate .
she hath not seen the change of fourteen years .
rather than so, come, fate, into the list, and champion me to the utterance!
thou art too wild ,  too rude and bold of voice— parts that become thee happily enough and in such eyes as ours appear not faults .
therefore ,  my sweet rose ,  my dear rose ,  be merry .
it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did .
therefore i promise ye i fear you .
send for the county .
signior bassanio ,  hear me: if i do not put on a sober habit ,  talk with respect ,  and swear but now and then ,  wear prayer - books in my pocket ,  look demurely; nay more ,  while grace is saying ,  hood mine eyes thus with my hat ,  and sigh ,  and say amen; use all the observance of civility ,  like one well studied in a sad ostent to please his grandam , —never trust me more .
all that glisters is not gold ,  often have you heard that told: many a man his life hath sold ,  but my outside to behold: gilded tombs do worms enfold .
i know my physic will work with him .
what should this mean ?
there, gentle hermia, may i marry thee; and to that place the sharp athenian law cannot pursue us.
therefore my merchandise makes me not sad .
lord, what fools these mortals be!
or did the letters work upon his blood ,  and new create this fault ?
thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most sharp sauce .
his eyes were green as leeks .
gentlemen ,  my master antonio is at his house ,  and desires to speak with you both .
ah ha, my mistresses!
and for cassio ,  let me be his undertaker .
sue to him again ,  and he's yours .
i marry her!
a laughter .
father'd he is ,  and yet he's fatherless .
i'll cross it ,  though it blast me .
heavens keep him from these beasts !
thou villain capulet ! —hold me not ,  let me go .
to what effect ?
what says polonius?
thither i must ,  although against my will ,  for servants must their masters' minds fulfill .
how low am i ,  thou painted maypole ?
it hath the primal eldest curse upon ’t ,  a brother’s murder .
in happy time, iago.
oh ,  say so ,  and so be !
make me to see ’t ,  or at the least so prove it that the probation bear no hinge nor loop to hang a doubt on ,  or woe upon thy life !
ho, guildenstern!
there be fools alive ,  iwis ,  silvered o'er—and so was this .
the noble brutus is ascended.
and so have i a noble father lost; a sister driven into desperate terms ,  whose worth ,  if praises may go back again ,  stood challenger on mount of all the age for her perfections .
mustardseed.
will not the ladies be afeard of the lion ?
he does hear me ,  and that he does i weep; myself am naples ,  who with mine eyes ,  never since at ebb ,  beheld the king my father wrecked .
we know what belongs to a watch .
if you call me jephthah ,  my lord ,  i have a daughter that i love passing well .
ay ,  every man away .
none ,  my lord .
no ,  faith ,  hate him not ,  for my sake .
good counsel ,  marry .
those that with haste will make a mighty fire begin it with weak straws.
now ,  for my life ,  hortensio fears his widow .
yet i cannot choose but laugh to think it should leave crying and say  “ ay .  ”  and yet ,  i warrant ,  it had upon its brow a bump as big as a young cockerel’s stone ,  a perilous knock ,  and it cried bitterly .
and earthly power doth then show likest god’s when mercy seasons justice .
but what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these princely suitors that are already come?
approach, rich ceres, her to entertain.
i ’gin to be aweary of the sun and wish the estate o’ the world were now undone.
went he hence now ?
ay .
he said the truth .
vent my folly !
blistered be thy tongue for such a wish !
follow me ,  then .
the mind i sway by and the heart i bear shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear .
the will !
she has spoke what she should not, i am sure of that.
what bloody man is that ?
full half an hour .
no more be done .
the queen his mother lives almost by his looks; and for myself— my virtue or my plague ,  be it either which— she's so conjunctive to my life and soul that ,  as the star moves not but in his sphere ,  i could not but by her .
another general shout !
good morrow ,  neighbor gremio . —god save you ,  gentlemen !
alas ,  the day !
in form and moving how express and admirable!
o lord ,  i could have stayed here all the night to hear good counsel .
nay, faith, let not me play a woman; i have a beard coming.
come ,  go we to the king .
though all things foul would wear the brows of grace ,  yet grace must still look so .
dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
i am their father’s mother .
i'll look to like ,  if looking liking move; but no more deep will i endart mine eye than your consent gives strength to make it fly .
ebbing men, indeed, most often do so near the bottom run by their own fear or sloth.
i brought my master news of juliet's death; and then in post he came from mantua to this same place ,  to this same monument .
never so rich a gem was set in worse than gold .
take thy forfeiture .
no ,  sir .
methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land ,  a fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements .
pish for thee ,  iceland dog ,  thou prick - eared cur of iceland !
what ,  ho !
we should hold day with the antipodes ,  if you would walk in absence of the sun .
come ,  sirs .
o wonder !
thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most sharp sauce.
but this is trifling ,  and all the more it seeks to hide itself the bigger bulk it shows .
i pray the gods she may ,  with all my heart !
that great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clouts .
what features ?
greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
o, i see that nose of yours, but not that dog i shall throw it to.
but it is no matter .
the more i hate ,  the more he follows me .
where art thou ,  proud demetrius ?
thy mother's poison'd.
are you acquainted with the difference that holds this present question in the court ?
mark me .
give me the daggers.
almost at odds with morning ,  which is which .
what is that noise ?
o churl !
stand, ho!
he did not call ,  he’s busy in the paper .
honest ,  my lord ?
tis well ,  sir ,  that you hunted for yourself .
what should i do with him ?
let him bless thee too .
let them guard the door.
more strange than true .
thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
with much ,  much more dismay i view the fight than thou that makest the fray .
i am constant to my purposes; they follow the king's pleasure .
ah ,  good demetrius ,  wilt thou give him me ?
what o'clock to - morrow shall i send to thee ?
shut doors after you .
do as i bid you .
hear the noble antony .
but wherefore could not i pronounce  “ amen ”  ?
my lord, i say!
o excellent young man !
certainly ,  my conscience will serve me to run from this jew ,  my master .
remember me .  ”  i have sworn ’t .
where is my lord the duke of gloucester ?
here’s such a coil .
nay ,  let me praise you while i have a stomach .
my lady's dead !
a fine woman!
the time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow that never words were music to thine ear ,  that never object pleasing in thine eye ,  that never touch well welcome to thy hand ,  that never meat sweet - savored in thy taste ,  unless i spake ,  or looked ,  or touched ,  or carved to thee .
i'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject ,  for the liquor is not earthly .
why ,  whose is it ?
royal egypt ,  empress !
wherefore rejoice ?
what ceremony else ?
ere i would say i would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen ,  i would change my humanity with a baboon .
stir not until the signal.
very well .
i will plant you two ,  and let the fool make a third ,  where he shall find the letter .
iago is most honest .
wouldst thou do such a thing for all the world ?
i am fear'd in field and town .
what do you here ?
there art thou happy .
so .
i do but keep the peace .
my noble uncle ,  do you know the cause ?
give me some help .
come hither ,  mistress .
doth not rosemary and romeo begin both with a letter?
ay me ,  it is my husband .
down ,  strumpet !
come forth ,  i say !
what is the matter, masters?
and i must to lorenzo and the rest; but we will visit you at supper-time.
welcome ,  wanderer .
who ?
if love have touched you ,  naught remains but so:   gramercies ,  lad ,  go forward .
not a dump ,  we .
expound unto me ,  boy .
to bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else, it will feed my revenge.
what lady's that, which doth enrich the hand of yonder knight?
so ,  so ,  so ,  so !
tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
and on the answer ,  he pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they step on .
it is a nipping and an eager air .
if you poison us, do we not die?
do you quarrel ,  sir ?
let us hear him.
you will set cock-a-hoop!
that's not the tune.
what will you do with't, that you have been so earnest to have me filch it?
it is a hint that wrings mine eyes to ’t .
go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready, she strike upon the bell.
by heaven ,  that should be my handkerchief !
till then sit still, my soul.
words before blows.
there is further compliment of leave - taking between france and him .
things for the cook, sir; but i know not what.
ha!
you have not been abed ,  then ?
the lunatic ,  the lover ,  and the poet are of imagination all compact .
where is kind hastings ?
hail!
if thou be merciful, open the tomb, lay me with juliet.
his horse is slain ,  and all on foot he fights ,  seeking for richmond in the throat of death .
his death’s upon him ,  but not dead .
i am bound to thee forever .
how oft to-night have my old feet stumbled at graves!
if thou keep promise ,  i shall end this strife; become a christian ,  and thy loving wife .
do not so.
with naught but truth .
when we shall meet at compt ,  this look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven ,  and fiends will snatch at it .
i'm out of patience.
and how long is that ,  think you ?
romeo.
and is't not to be damn'd to let this canker of our nature come in further evil?
she hath forsworn to love, and in that vow do i live dead that live to tell it now.
my lord and brother ,  god save you .
if there be cords or knives, poison or fire, or suffocating streams, i'll not endure it.
tut ,  i am in their bosoms ,  and i know wherefore they do it .
say you so ?
sin from my lips ?
the english power is near, led on by malcolm, his uncle siward, and the good macduff.
run away, i pray you!
what’s he ?
were the world mine ,  demetrius being bated ,  the rest i'd give to be to you translated .
what ,  is this so ?
i shall see thee ,  ere i die ,  look pale with love .
i’ll be at thy elbow .
but let me hear the letter of your friend.
and all my children?
but died thy sister of her love ,  my boy ?
dost thou not bring me letters from the friar ?
o cassius ,  brutus gave the word too early ,  who ,  having some advantage on octavius ,  took it too eagerly .
for lord hamlet, believe so much in him, that he is young, and with a larger tether may he walk than may be given you.
have you pray'd tonight, desdemona?
why came not the slave back to me when i called him .
o ,  pale !
why did you so ?
cicero is dead ,  and by that order of proscription .
is he not jealous ?
dead ,  then ?
you both are rivals, and love hermia; and now both rivals, to mock helena.
neither to you nor any one ,  having no witness to confirm my speech .
say to the king i would attend his leisure for a few words .
self - love ,  my liege ,  is not so vile a sin as self - neglecting .
to sebastian] his word is more than the miraculous [to sebastian] his word is more than the miraculous harp.
your worm is your only emperor for diet .
do thou but close our hands with holy words ,  then love - devouring death do what he dare— it is enough i may but call her mine .
you cannot ,  sir ,  take from me anything that i will more willingly part withal—except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life .
i’ll help you ,  sir toby ,  because we’ll be dressed together .
if he but blench ,  i know my course .
assure you ,  my good liege ,  i hold my duty as i hold my soul ,  both to my god and to my gracious king .
for gazing on your beams ,  fair sun ,  being by .
ay ,  and a kind one too .
dear celia ,  i show more mirth than i am mistress of ,  and would you yet i were merrier ?
away!
did i ,  charmian ,  ever love caesar so ?
ha !
finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple i boarded them.
now to my mother !
how now ,  lorenzo ?
what is't ,  my lord ?
a strange fish !
tut!
from whence ariseth this?
whence come you ?
i will bestow him, and will answer well the death i gave him.
o romeo, romeo!
o ,  how may i call this a lightning ?
your sum of parts did not together pluck such envy from him as did that one; and that, in my regard, of the unworthiest siege.
then to the wood will he tomorrow night pursue her .
i’ll have no speaking .
what ,  household stuff ?
why dost thou stay ?
they were villains ,  murderers .
crown him ?
good signior ,  you shall more command with years than with your weapons .
where is the master, boatswain?
my lord ,  the mayor of london comes to greet you .
the pox of such antic ,  lisping ,  affecting fantasticoes—these new tuners of accent !
hear a little further ,  and then i'll bring thee to the present business which now's upon's; without the which this story were most impertinent .
oh ,  do - de ,  do - de ,  do - de .
hie thee ,  gentle jew .
i hear a knocking at the south entry .
he knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo, by the bad voice.
oh ,  rarely base !
i dare do all that may become a man; who dares do more is none.
or of a courtier ,  which could say 'good morrow ,  sweet lord !
fore god, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good discretion.
the early village cock hath twice done salutation to the morn .
at first and last the hearty welcome.
good ancient, you are welcome.
do we but find the tyrant's power tonight, let us be beaten, if we cannot fight.
i protest ,  in the sincerity of love and honest kindness .
i know not how to pray your patience ,  yet i must speak .
but i do see you’re moved .
but other of your insolent retinue do hourly carp and quarrel ,  breaking forth in rank and not - to - be - endurèd riots .
no .
remember me . ’ i have sworn't .
this hand is moist, my lady.
truly ,  the lady fathers herself . —be happy ,  lady ,  for you are like an honorable father .
where’s that mongrel ?
here i kneel: if e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love ,  either in discourse of thought or actual deed ,  or that mine eyes ,  mine ears ,  or any sense ,  delighted them ,  or any other form ,  or that i do not yet ,  and ever did ,
my lord ,  he hath importuned me with love in honourable fashion .
to none but thee ,  no more but when to thee .
marry ,  sir ,  to get a husband for her sister .
help !
a good matter ,  surely .
a great suspicion .
who's there ?
i do not like your faults.
now god in heaven bless thee !
tybalt, you ratcatcher, will you walk?
if such a one be fit to govern ,  speak .
yes ,  just .
i cross me for a sinner .
be rul'd by me: forget to think of her .
good my lord, tell it.
calling death  “ banishment ,  ”  thou cutt’st my head off with a golden ax and smilest upon the stroke that murders me .
o calm dishonourable ,  vile submission !
i know it is the moon .
welcome, my good friends.
where should i lose that handkerchief ,  emilia ?
heaven and earth !
you the like loss ?
that cannot be; since i am still possess'd of those effects for which i did the murder— my crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
what not put upon his spongy officers ,  who shall bear the guilt of our great quell ?
aside to ariel] bravely, my diligence.
exit ariel] [exit ariel] awake ,  dear heart ,  awake !
o my breast ,  thy hope ends here !
no way but this ,  killing myself ,  to die upon a kiss .
o wise and upright judge !
fair princess ,  you have lost much good sport .
casca will tell us what the matter is.
signior lodovico ?
now god in heaven bless thee !
hence ,  horrible shadow !
can you tell me whether one launcelot ,  that dwells with him ,  dwell with him ,  or no ?
turn the sands into eloquent tongues ,  and my horse is argument for them all .
starveling!
they could not ,  would not do ’t .
soft ,  sir !
here's another ,  more potent than the first .
i know her by her gait .
thou villain capulet!—hold me not, let me go.
silence !
what's the matter, that you unlace your reputation thus, and spend your rich opinion for the name of a nightbrawler?
i commend my duty to your lordship .
o sweet mistress, speak!
and but my noble moor is true of mind and made of no such baseness as jealous creatures are ,  it were enough to put him to ill thinking .
i have as much of my father in me as you ,  albeit ,  i confess ,  your coming before me is nearer to his reverence .
if it be found so ,  some will dear abide it .
for the law of writ and the liberty ,  these are the only men .
if you would take the pains but to examine the wars of pompey the great ,  you shall find ,  i warrant you ,  that there is no tiddle toddle nor pibble babble in pompey’s camp .
think on me ,  that am with phoebus’ amorous pinches black and wrinkled deep in time .
it is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
not in the legions of horrid hell can come a devil more damned in evils to top macbeth .
for mine own good all causes shall give way.
who ever knew the heavens menace so ?
and then for her to win the moor, were't to renounce his baptism, all seals and symbols of redeemed sin, his soul is so enfetter'd to her love, that she may make, unmake, do what she list, even as her appetite shall play the god with his weak function.
i cannot speak your england .
if not the face of men, the sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse— if these be motives weak, break off betimes, and every man hence to his idle bed; so let high-sighted tyranny range on till each man drop by lottery.
but shall ’t be shortly ?
we will behold his death .
what is this that rises like the issue of a king ,  and wears upon his baby - brow the round and top of sovereignty ?
this was his basket .
with whom?
how much i had to do to calm his rage .
he will bear you easily and reins well .
saw you him to - day ?
well ,  it shall be so .
lord, how it looks about!
good night to everyone.
what grows of it ,  no matter .
look ,  he stirs: do you withdraw yourself a little while ,  he will recover straight .
will you help ? —an ass - head ,  and a coxcomb ,  and a knave ,  a thin - faced knave ,  a gull !
is it come to this ?
i know ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ no house ,  no wife ,  no mistress .  ”  so that my errand ,  due unto my tongue ,  i thank him ,  i bare home upon my shoulders ,  for ,  in conclusion ,  he did beat me there .
mean you his majesty ?
never did mockers waste more idle breath .
i your servant .
to ferdinand] what is this maid with whom thou [to ferdinand] what is this maid with whom thou wast at play?
i am indeed, sir, a surgeon to old shoes; when they are in great danger, i recover them.
speak this no more .
this is as uncivil as strange .
hence will i to my ghostly friar’s close cell ,  his help to crave and my dear hap to tell .
this approves her letter that she would soon be here .
o ,  farewell ,  honest soldier .
my husband!
come ,  come ,  do you think i do not know you by your excellent wit ?
you speak not as you think; it cannot be.
i have of late—but wherefore i know not— lost all my mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth, seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
ratcliffe !
what, ho!
speak to her ,  hamlet .
think not ,  thou noble roman ,  that ever brutus will go bound to rome .
no ,  cassio is not killed .
i wonder of their being here together .
tis now near night .
o, let me kiss this princess of pure white, this seal of bliss!
he hath rid his prologue like a rough colt .
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie ?
here's a change indeed!
marry ,  it is your brother’s right hand .
feather of lead ,  bright smoke ,  cold fire ,  sick health !
i think he bought his doublet in italy, his round hose in france, his bonnet in germany and his behaviour everywhere.
do ,  if it will not stand .
is ’t so saucy ?
at first and last the hearty welcome .
i met the youthful lord at laurence’ cell and gave him what becomed love i might, not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty.
give him this money and these notes ,  reynaldo .
throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth, from whence you have them.
i’ll make him find him .
o ,  where is romeo ?
aside to sebastian] i am right glad that he's so out [aside to sebastian] i am right glad that he's so out of hope.
this might be the pate of a politician, which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent god, might it not?
more ,  more ,  i prithee ,  more .
give him a statue with his ancestors .
where’s peaseblossom ?
why, now, blow and, swell billow, and swim bark!
is it a custom ?
fear him not, caesar; he's not dangerous; he is a noble roman and well given.
indeed, that is out of the air.
thou wilt not murder me ?
to - morrow will i send .
strike not by land; keep whole .
but what’s your will ?
this lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
what things are these ,  my lord antonio ?
out o' your wits and hearing too ?
i was contracted to them both .
come ,  gentlemen ,  let’s go .
i shall be pinched to death .
i have noted it well .
and they that are most gallèd with my folly ,  they most must laugh .
to save her life ,  i’ll say she is not so .
his name is romeo ,  and a montague ,  the only son of your great enemy .
that will i do .
i am content.
let me be married to three kings in a forenoon and widow them all .
all but mariners plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel, then all afire with me: the king's son ferdinand, with hair up-staring—then like reeds, not hair— was the first man that leapt, cried, ’hell is empty, and all the devils are here.’ why, that's my spirit!
i am not bound to please thee with my answers .
they say the owl was a baker's daughter .
a most unhappy one .
father ,  what news ?
pour in sow's blood that hath eaten her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten from the murderer's gibbet throw into the flame.
i bear no hatred ,  blessèd man ,  for ,  lo ,  my intercession likewise steads my foe .
this is the very ecstasy of love ,  whose violent property fordoes itself and leads the will to desperate undertakings as oft as any passion under heaven that does afflict our natures .
swounds, show me what thou'lt do.
to prison; till fit time of law and course of direct session ,  call thee to answer .
back you shall not to the house ,  unless you undertake that with me which with as much safety you might answer him .
o woeful ,  woeful ,  woeful day !
love - news ,  in faith .
i will not change my horse with any that treads but on four pasterns .
but is all this for your father ?
the cords that romeo bid thee fetch?
why did you so cry out ,  sirs ,  in your sleep ?
well too .
my lord ,  the queen would speak with you ,  and presently .
where is antony ?
leave him to my displeasure . —edmund ,  keep you our sister company .
good morrow to you both .
a right good markman!
well ,  good night .
for ’tis most easy th' inclining desdemona to subdue in any honest suit .
but upon the fairest boughs ,  or at every sentence end ,  will i  “ rosalinda ”  write ,  teaching all that read to know the quintessence of every sprite heaven would in little show .
my master is the great rich capulet ,  and if you be not of the house of montagues ,  i pray come and crush a cup of wine .
do you amend it then .
art thou afeared ?
and i ,  of ladies most deject and wretched ,  that suck'd the honey of his music vows ,  now see that noble and most sovereign reason ,  like sweet bells jangled ,  out of tune and harsh; that unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth blasted with ecstasy .
thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life .
a dream itself is but a shadow .
nay ,  i am the very pink of courtesy .
niggard of question ,  but of our demands most free in his reply .
take them in .
that she’s the chosen of signior hortensio .
what if this mixture do not work at all ?
now lord be thanked for my good amends !
a plague o’ both your houses !
as the indifferent children of the earth.
a mighty man of pisa .
now attest that those whom you called fathers did beget you .
my naked weapon is out .
if i once stir ,  or do but lift this arm ,  the best of you shall sink in my rebuke .
juliet ,  on thursday early will i rouse ye .
silence !
lend thy hand and pluck my magic garment from me .
oh ,  oh ,  oh !
pray you, lead on.
alexander ,  god knows and you know ,  in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his cholers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations ,  and also being a little intoxicates in his prains ,  did ,  in his ales and his angers ,  look you ,  kill his best friend ,  cleitus .
we are enough yet living in the field to smother up the english in our throngs ,  if any order might be thought upon .
let that be left which leaves itself .
if he be not born to be hanged, our case is miserable.
i am glad of it .
the turk with a most mighty preparation makes for cyprus .
ah, where's my man?
o clitus !
no mind that's honest but in it shares some woe, though the main part pertains to you alone.
my sweet cassio !
now i perceive they have conjoin'd all three to fashion this false sport ,  in spite of me .
well ,  sir ,  we will not .
dost thou hear me ,  old friend ?
take thou that.
why ,  well .
we must die ,  messala .
and therefore as a stranger give it welcome .
come ,  recreant ,  come ,  thou child; i'll whip thee with a rod .
the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to laertes before you fall to play .
no ,  not a grize .
go bear it to the centaur ,  where we host ,  and stay there ,  dromio ,  till i come to thee .
name cleopatra as she is called in rome .
my tables—meet it is i set it down that one may smile ,  and smile ,  and be a villain; at least i am sure it may be so in denmark .
there !
besides ,  they have burned and carried away all that was in the king’s tent ,  wherefore the king ,  most worthily ,  hath caused every soldier to cut his prisoner’s throat .
yes ,  one ,  and in this manner .
what will you do ?
my lord ,  i came to see your father's funeral .
well ,  let it strike .
for one thing she did they would not take her life .
o ,  i am slain !
i will be brief ,  for my short date of breath is not so long as is a tedious tale .
he were no lion ,  were not romans hinds .
when our actions do not, our fears do make us traitors.
for who would bear the whips and scorns of time ,  th' oppressor’s wrong ,  the proud man’s contumely ,  the pangs of despised love ,  the law’s delay ,  the insolence of office ,  and the spurns that patient merit of th' unworthy takes ,  when he himself might his quietus make with a bare bodkin ?
what ceremony else?
what should this mean?
there's a french salutation to your french slop.
with the earl ,  sir ,  here within .
tis well you offer it behind her back; the wish would make else an unquiet house .
why might not you ,  my lord ,  receive attendance from those that she calls servants ,  or from mine ?
show me a mistress that is passing fair, what doth her beauty serve but as a note where i may read who pass'd that passing fair?
what's best to do ?
but look thou stay not till the watch be set, for then thou canst not pass to mantua, where thou shalt live till we can find a time to blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends, beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back with twenty hundred thousand times more joy than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
i heard nothing .
and thereof came it that the man was mad .
if that the turkish fleet be not ensheltered and embayed ,  they are drowned .
did he not straight ,  in pious rage ,  the two delinquents tear ,  that were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep ?
thou dost here usurp the name thou ow'st not; and hast put thyself upon this island as a spy, to win it from me, the lord on't.
i have a strange infirmity ,  which is nothing to those that know me .
as of a man faithful and honorable .
ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness.
let’s hear it .
he that shall see this day ,  and live old age ,  will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors and say ,   “ tomorrow is saint crispian .  ”  then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars ,  and say ,   “ these wounds i had on crispin’s day .  ”
set it down .
no ,  to whitefriars .
gone ?
when think you that the sword goes up again ?
if i should take a displeasure against you, look you— thou wert but a lost monster.
hence his ambition growing— dost thou hear ?
even he, sir.
aside.
with rosaline ,  my ghostly father ?
come your ways .
come, how wouldst thou praise me?
sent he to macduff?
that if you be honest and fair ,  your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty .
how is ’t ?
what ,  not to pray ?
i see these witches are afraid of swords .
hear me, good brother.
tomorrow ,  caesar ,  i shall be furnished to inform you rightly both what by sea and land i can be able to front this present time .
go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and ,  for this fault ,  assemble all the poor men of your sort ,  draw them to tiber banks ,  and weep your tears into the channel ,  till the lowest stream do kiss the most exalted shores of all .
i think the world’s asleep .
yet brutus says he was ambitious ,  and brutus is an honorable man .
when remedies are past, the griefs are ended by seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
let’s draw our weapons .
let her awhile be secretly kept in and publish it that she is dead indeed .
show his eyes and grieve his heart .
i will ,  my lord; i pray you pardon me .
can you tell if rosalind ,  the duke’s daughter ,  be banished with her father ?
for every thing is seal'd and done that else leans on the affair .
nor know i aught but that he’s well and will be shortly here .
you were kneeled to and importuned otherwise by all of us ,  and the fair soul herself weighed between loathness and obedience ,  at which end o' th' beam should bow .
thou bring’st me out of tune .
young fry of treachery !
tomorrow will it please you to be crowned ?
well ,  well .
do you understand me ?
what dost thou mean by this?
when shall he come ?
would i were sleep and peace ,  so sweet to rest .
what ,  strike his wife !
three thousand ducats for three months ,  and antonio bound .
but as we often see ,  against some storm ,  a silence in the heavens ,  the rack stand still ,  the bold winds speechless ,  and the orb below as hush as death—anon the dreadful thunder doth rend the region; so ,  after pyrrhus' pause ,  aroused vengeance sets him new a - work; and never did the cyclops' hammers fall on mars's armour ,  forged for proof eterne ,  with less remorse than pyrrhus' bleeding sword now falls on priam .
my tale provokes that question .
indeed !
o time ,  thou must untangle this ,  not i .
ay ,  my good lord .
thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age.
hearts ,  tongues ,  figures ,  scribes ,  bards ,  poets ,  cannot think ,  speak ,  cast ,  write ,  sing ,  number—hoo ! — his love to antony .
o heavens !
well ,  death's the end of all .
well may you prosper .
away with him .
as long as hell and richard likes of it .
the king is a thing— a thing, my lord?
hortensio ,  peace .
sir ,  octavius is already come to rome .
it shall be so.
i see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl that speak my salutation in their minds ,  whose voices i desire aloud with mine: hail ,  king of scotland !
i saw him yesterday ” —or  “ t' other day ,  ”  or then ,  or then ,  with such or such— “ and ,  as you say ,  there was he gaming ,  there o'ertook in’s rouse ,  there falling out at tennis ,  ”  or ,  perchance ,   “ i saw him enter such a house of sale ” —   your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth .
within these ten days if that thou beest found so near our public court as twenty miles ,  thou diest for it .
stand ,  ho !
on the sixth hour; at which time, my lord, you said our work should cease.
sojourn in mantua .
come ,  prepare .
o villain!
is't far you ride ?
is not that he that lies upon the ground ?
ay, my good lord.
you are there followed by a faithful shepherd .
seek it out .
it is the lady that pyramus must love .
it were a tedious difficulty ,  i think ,  to bring them to that prospect .
even such a husband hast thou of me ,  as she is for a wife .
mother ,  for love of grace ,  lay not that flattering unction to your soul that not your trespass but my madness speaks .
even this repays me . — we sent our schoolmaster .
what do you think of me ?
they did so, to the amazement of mine eyes that look'd upon't.
what is pyramus ?
that same villain romeo.
i care not for my spirits ,  if my legs were not weary .
your virtue is my privilege .
what ,  is brutus sick ,  and will he steal out of his wholesome bed ,  to dare the vile contagion of the night and tempt the rheumy and unpurgèd air to add unto his sickness ?
a plague upon the tyrant that i serve !
he is the brooch indeed and gem of all the nation.
this avarice sticks deeper ,  grows with more pernicious root than summer - seeming lust ,  and it hath been the sword of our slain kings .
i see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to fright me ,  if they could .
to th’ most of men this is a caliban ,  and they to him are angels .
along with them they brought one pinch ,  a hungry ,  lean - faced villain ,  a mere anatomy ,  a mountebank ,  a threadbare juggler ,  and a fortune - teller ,  a needy ,  hollow - eyed ,  sharp - looking wretch ,  a living dead man .
tut !
o hamlet ,  what a falling off was there !
brought you caesar home ?
they call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
now ,  my co - mates and brothers in exile ,  hath not old custom made this life more sweet than that of painted pomp ?
sound ,  trumpet !
i pray you.
thou detestable maw, thou womb of death, gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth, thus i enforce thy rotten jaws to open, and in despite i'll cram thee with more food.
it shall to the barber’s ,  with your beard . —prithee ,  say on .
silence!
what noise ?
lysander ,  keep thy hermia; i will none .
how now ,  malvolio !
o time’s extremity ,  hast thou so crack’d and splitted my poor tongue in seven short years that here my only son knows not my feeble key of untuned cares ?
the play's the thing wherein i'll catch the conscience of the king .
it is not very strange; for my uncle is king of denmark, and those that would make mows at him while my father lived give twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little.
the chaplain of the tower hath buried them ,  but where ,  to say the truth ,  i do not know .
i think i told your lordship a year since how much i am in the favor of margaret ,  the waiting gentlewoman to hero .
mark me .
i have spoke thus much ,  to mitigate the justice of thy plea ,  which if thou follow ,  this strict court of venice must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there .
or came it by request and such fair question as soul to soul affordeth ?
tell me .
very well .
marry ,  sir ,  they praise me and make an ass of me ,  now my foes tell me plainly i am an ass .
i hear him coming .
therein ,  ye gods ,  you make the weak most strong .
it is not honesty in me to speak what i have seen and known .
if thou rememb'rest aught ere thou cam'st here, how thou cam'st here thou mayst.
ay ,  i do .
the enemy ,  marching along by them ,  by them shall make a fuller number up ,  come on refresh'd ,  new - added ,  and encouraged; from which advantage shall we cut him off if at philippi we do face him there ,  these people at our back .
how now ?
villainous thoughts, roderigo!
well ,  what worst ?
why do we hold our tongues ,  that most may claim this argument for ours ?
he's loved of the distracted multitude, who like not in their judgment, but their eyes; and where 'tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd, but never the offence.
how absolute the knave is !
these foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit .
well then ,  go you into hell ?
i tell thee ,  churlish priest ,  a ministering angel shall my sister be when thou liest howling .
your face ,  my thane ,  is as a book where men may read strange matters .
is it not hard ,  nerissa ,  that i cannot choose one nor refuse none ?
i met the duke yesterday and had much question with him .
the body is with the king ,  but the king is not with the body .
what ,  ho !
discern'st thou aught in that?
twill bring you gain or perish on the seas .
so ,  come ,  help .
what would you ?
i did hear him groan.
soft ,  caesar .
what ,  will you murder me ? —thou jailer ,  thou ,  i am thy prisoner .
this tune goes manly .
say from whence you owe this strange intelligence ,  or why upon this blasted heath you stop our way with such prophetic greeting ?
but ,  good laertes ,  will you do this ,  keep close within your chamber .
portia, what mean you?
ho, awake!
be that thou know’st thou art ,  and then thou art as great as that thou fear’st .
tis given out that, sleeping in mine orchard, a serpent stung me.
and i for rosalind .
make haste .
this murderous shaft that's shot hath not yet lighted ,  and our safest way is to avoid the aim .
and these does she apply for warnings and portents and evils imminent ,  and on her knee hath begged that i will stay at home today .
the one of them contains my picture, prince; if you choose that, then i am yours withal.
why then ,  the devil give him good of it !
now i will believe that there are unicorns ,  that in arabia there is one tree ,  the phoenix' throne ,  one phoenix at this hour reigning there .
come ,  be a man !
do you sing it ,  and i’ll dance it .
the last she spake was  “ antony ,  most noble antony !  ”  then in the midst a tearing groan did break the name of antony .
so shall i hope your virtues will bring him to his wonted way again ,  to both your honours .
not a whit .
do not you love me ?
look how thou dream’st !
let’s to bed ,  knight .
let me go with him.
come away ,  away .
if it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer ,  i will do your mother’s commandment .
bring a corollary, rather than want a spirit.
peace then !
well, but to my choice: who chooseth me, shall get as much as he deserves.
here ,  master .
look ,  they weep ,  and i ,  an ass ,  am onion - eyed .
but mark, poor knight, what dreadful dole is here!
this is kind i offer .
and made your other love ,  demetrius ,  who even but now did spurn me with his foot ,  to call me goddess ,  nymph ,  divine ,  and rare ,  precious ,  celestial ?
octavius ,  i have seen more days than you ,  and though we lay these honors on this man to ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads ,  he shall but bear them as the ass bears gold ,  to groan and sweat under the business ,  either led or driven ,  as we point the way; and having brought our treasure where we will ,  then take we down his load and turn him off ,  like to the empty ass ,  to shake his ears and graze in commons .
good reasons must of force give place to better.
two or three groan .
where i have learnt me to repent the sin of disobedient opposition to you and your behests, and am enjoin'd by holy laurence to fall prostrate here to beg your pardon.
peace ,  you dull fool .
will you to scone ?
a most poor credulous monster . —well drawn ,  monster ,  in good sooth !
nay ,  if you strive— but half an hour !
do as i bid thee ,  go .
i do, with all my heart; and yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
why ,  dromio ?
i have heard it said so .
of that i shall have also cause to speak ,  and from his mouth whose voice will draw on more .
alack ,  sir ,  you cannot see your way .
whistle then to me, as signal that thou hear'st something approach.
full many a lady i have eyed with best regard and many a time
now am i dromio ,  and his man ,  unbound .
i think it be no other but e'en so .
couch we a while and mark .
hie you ,  messala ,  and i will seek for pindarus the while .
you’ve strange serpents there ?
no better.
oh ,  let their bodies follow ,  my dear liege ,  with blood and sword and fire to win your right ,  in aid whereof we of the spiritualty will raise your highness such a mighty sum as never did the clergy at one time bring in to any of your ancestors .
but who did bid thee join with us?
strange things i have in head that will to hand, which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
faith ,  none but humfrey hower ,  that called your grace to breakfast once ,  forth of my company .
have you heard any imputation to the contrary ?
thou art the ruins of the noblest man that ever lived in the tide of times .
ride ,  ride ,  messala .
benedicite !
villain ,  be sure thou prove my love a whore; be sure of it .
you will not then?
set him before me; let me see his face.
i prithee ,  foolish greek ,  depart from me .
in faith, too much; i find it still when i have list to sleep: marry, before your ladyship, i grant she puts her tongue a little in her heart and chides with thinking.
tell me ,  laertes ,  why thou art thus incensed .
despised substance of divinest show!
what ceremony else ?
for the love of god ,  a surgeon !
therein the patient must minister to himself.
for i do know ,  the state ,  however this may gall him with some check ,  cannot with safety cast him; for he's embark'd with such loud reason to the cyprus' wars ,  which even now stands in act ,  that ,  for their souls ,  another of his fathom they have none to lead their business; in which regard ,  though i do hate him as i do hell - pains ,  yet for necessity of present life ,  i must show out a flag and sign of love ,  which is indeed but sign .
is ’t not hortensio ?
mine ache to think on ’t .
yet do i not use my horse for my mistress ,  or any such proverb so little kin to the purpose .
you say not right ,  old man .
wert thou as young as i ,  juliet thy love ,  an hour but married ,  tybalt murdered ,  doting like me ,  and like me banished ,  then mightst thou speak ,  then mightst thou tear thy hair ,  and fall upon the ground ,  as i do now ,  taking the measure of an unmade grave .
it doth not fit me .
by my troth ,  the fool has an excellent breast .
delay this marriage for a month, a week; or if you do not, make the bridal bed in that dim monument where tybalt lies.
this ’tis to feel a tale ,  not to hear a tale .
o, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
i am ashamed i did yield to them.
how ,  in one house ,  should many people under two commands hold amity ?
i say ‘silver sound’ because musicians sound for silver.
hurt him in eleven places .
who is ’t that cried ?
i beseech thee, youth, put not another sin upon my head by urging me to fury.
believe me, no; i thank my fortune for it, my ventures are not in one bottom trusted, nor to one place; nor is my whole estate upon the fortune of this present year: therefore my merchandise makes me not sad.
if we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves ,  they may pass for excellent men .
brutus ,  bait not me .
i wonder if titania be awaked; then ,  what it was that next came in her eye ,  which she must dote on in extremity .
alas ,  poor romeo !
who ,  being more than sand - blind ,  high - gravel blind ,  knows me not: i will try confusions with him .
seyton, send out.
o proud death, what feast is toward in thine eternal cell that thou so many princes at a shot so bloodily hast struck?
romeo will answer it.
what, if my house be troubled with a rat and i be pleas'd to give ten thousand ducats to have it ban'd?
witness this army ,  of such mass and charge ,  led by a delicate and tender prince ,  whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd ,  makes mouths at the invisible event ,  exposing what is mortal and unsure to all that fortune ,  death ,  and danger dare ,  even for an eggshell .
i had rather be married to a death's head with a bone in his mouth ,  than to either of these .
stop her there !
you rise to play and go to bed to work .
be fickle, fortune, for then i hope thou wilt not keep him long but send him back.
i pray thee ,  if it stand with honesty ,  buy thou the cottage ,  pasture ,  and the flock ,  and thou shalt have to pay for it of us .
but i with blowing the fire shall warm myself .
the old cock.
i think it lacks of twelve.
but ,  if you were the devil ,  you are fair .
dispute it like a man .
come, hang them on this line.
for the table ,  sir ,  it shall be served in .
come ,  sir ,  i will not let you go .
here comes kent .
whether he was combined with those of norway, or did line the rebel with hidden help and vantage, or that with both he labor'd in his country's wreck, i know not; but treasons capital, confess'd and proved, have overthrown him.
stephano is my name ,  and i bring word my mistress will before the break of day be here at belmont .
o, here they come.
with an eye of green in't .
pray ye ,  go .
she will indite him to some supper .
stand you directly in antonio's way, when he doth run his course.
i speak but in the figures and comparisons of it .
she speaks much of her father; says she hears there's tricks i' the world ,  and hems ,  and beats her heart; spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt ,  that carry but half sense .
conceit upon her father .
alack ,  for pity !
the king doth keep his revels here tonight; take heed the queen come not within his sight; for oberon is passing fell and wrath ,  because that she as her attendant hath a lovely boy ,  stolen from an indian king .
how purposed, sir, i pray you?
my pretty cousin, blessing upon you!
what sense had i of her stol'n hours of lust ?
very well, my lord.
which way?
my lord ,  they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband .
and ,  for thou wast a spirit too delicate to act her earthy and abhorred commands ,  refusing her grand hests ,  she did confine thee ,  by help of her more potent ministers and in her most unmitigable rage ,  into a cloven pine ,  within which rift imprisoned thou didst painfully remain a dozen years; within which space she died and left thee there ,  where thou didst vent thy groans as fast as mill wheels strike .
i must be laughed at if or for nothing or a little ,  i should say myself offended ,  and with you chiefly i’ th’ world; more laughed at ,  that i should once name you derogately ,  when to sound your name it not concerned me .
but i feel not this deity in my bosom .
think yourself a baby that you have ta'en these tenders for true pay ,  which are not sterling .
i’ll board him presently .
give me your neaf ,  monsieur mustardseed .
what villain ,  madam ?
i am for it ,  lieutenant ,  and i’ll do you justice .
a customer !
twill out, 'twill.
naught that i am, not for their own demerits, but for mine, fell slaughter on their souls.
well ,  thou dost best .
macbeth!
that dreamers often lie.
some dear cause will in concealment wrap me up awhile .
young romeo is it?
no ,  indeed ,  are they not .
that pure congealed white, high taurus' snow, fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow when thou hold'st up thy hand.
tis not fit thus to obey him .
i lay with cassio lately and ,  being troubled with a raging tooth ,  i could not sleep .
i do beseech your grace to pardon me ,  and withal forbear your conference with the noble duke .
defend thee !
the wine she drinks is made of grapes .
she's dead, deceas'd; she's dead!
against some part of poland.
i beyond all limit of what else i' th' world do love ,  prize ,  honor you .
and may not young men die as well as old ?
off with his son george’s head !
dismay'd not this our captains, macbeth and banquo?
truly ,  sir ,  all that i live by is with the awl .
therefore be merry, cassio, for thy solicitor shall rather die than give thy cause away.
then what i have to do will want true colour—tears perchance for blood.
now ,  good my lord ,  lie here and rest awhile .
but being widow ,  and my gloucester with her ,  may all the building in my fancy pluck upon my hateful life .
ay ,  but i fear you speak upon the rack ,  where men enforced do speak anything .
thus with a kiss i die .
god, god, forgive us all!
what enterprise ,  popilius ?
a friend .
would they had stay'd !
oh ,  woe the day !
here ,  noble lord .
a king ,  a king !
for england?
conceit upon her father.
how now ,  sweet queen ?
what a jaunt have i had !
or keep it as a cistern for foul toads to knot and gender in !
a hall, a hall!
it is the false stew- ard, that stole his master's daughter.
arm you ,  i pray you ,  to this speedy voyage; for we will fetters put upon this fear ,  which now goes too free - footed .
my lord ,  as i was sewing in my closet ,  lord hamlet ,  with his doublet all unbraced ,  no hat upon his head ,  his stockings fouled ,  ungartered ,  and down - gyved to his ankle; pale as his shirt ,  his knees knocking each other ,  and with a look so piteous in purport as if he had been loosed out of hell to speak of horrors ,  he comes before me .
so she may live unscarred of bleeding slaughter ,  i will confess she was not edward’s daughter .
in happy time .
and all for nothing!
no, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk; then, howso'er thou speak'st, 'mong other things i shall digest it.
the king’s son ,  ferdinand ,  with hair up - staring—then ,  like reeds ,  not hair— was the first man that leaped ,  cried ,   “ hell is empty and all the devils are here .  ”       why ,  that’s my spirit !
richmond is on the seas .
my lord, my lord!
lysander ,  whereto tends all this ?
you must contrary me!
i have been talking with a suitor here ,  a man that languishes in your displeasure .
take it ,  god ,  for it is none but thine .
o woe !
but what a fool am i to chat with you ,  when i should bid good morrow to my bride and seal the title with a lovely kiss !
iras ,  long farewell .
his glory not extenuated wherein he was worthy ,  nor his offenses enforced for which he suffered death .
if you can look into the seeds of time, and say which grain will grow and which will not, speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear your favors nor your hate.
upon what ground ?
why ,   “ some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrown upon them .  ”  i was one ,  sir ,  in this interlude ,  one sir topas ,  sir ,  but that’s all one .
hark thee ,  dardanius .
caesar’s sister is called octavia .
friends ,  part !  ”  and ,  swifter than his tongue ,  his agile arm beats down their fatal points ,  and ’twixt them rushes—underneath whose arm an envious thrust from tybalt hit the life of stout mercutio ,  and then tybalt fled .
give me your hands ,  if we be friends ,  and robin shall restore amends .
no indeed, my lord.
caesar ,  i shall .
there's warrant in that theft which steals itself when there's no mercy left .
i will set down what comes from her, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
i think he thinks upon the savage bull .
patience perforce with wilful choler meeting makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting .
gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing ,  more than any man in all venice .
thou didst drink the stale of horses and the gilded puddle which beasts would cough at .
i do not, sir.
how can that be, when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in denmark?
look to't ,  i charge you .
think’st thou the fiery fever will go out with titles blown from adulation ?
my gracious sovereign .
i thought all for the best.
good my lord ,  enter here .
nothing ,  but this is so .
thou torturest me ,  tubal .
thither will i invite the duke and all’s contented followers .
i come not ,  friends ,  to steal away your hearts .
make we our march towards birnam
most high ,  most mighty ,  and most puissant caesar ,  metellus cimber throws before thy seat an humble heart .
because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians ,  you’ll have your daughter covered with a barbary horse .
each heart in rome does love and pity you .
did he take interest ?
here comes sir toby halting .
i am not made of stones ,  but penetrable to your kind entreaties ,  albeit against my conscience and my soul .
what a haste looks through his eyes !
god defend me from these two!
this hand is moist ,  my lady .
my face i’ll grime with filth ,  blanket my loins ,  elf all my hair in knots ,  and with presented nakedness outface the winds and persecutions of the sky .
say it ,  othello .
o my heart !
but here my father comes.
how foolish do your fears seem now ,  calpurnia !
sole monarch of the universal earth ,  oh ,  what a beast was i to chide at him !
i am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far as that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea, i would adventure for such merchandise.
she hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste; for beauty, starv'd with her severity, cuts beauty off from all posterity.
yea ,  and the best person too .
why, what is that to you?
good sentences ,  and well pronounced .
thy love!
i never can see him but i am heartburned an hour after .
but ,  good lieutenant ,  is your general wived ?
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ?
yet ,  'tis the plague of great ones; prerogatived are they less than the base; 'tis destiny unshunnable ,  like death: even then this forked plague is fated to us when we do quicken .
this guest of summer, the temple-haunting martlet, does approve by his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath smells wooingly here.
and be a happy mother by the deed .
oh ,  rare for antony !
be factious for redress of all these griefs ,  and i will set this foot of mine as far as who goes farthest .
that you do love me, i am nothing jealous; what you would work me to, i have some aim.
look, how our partner's rapt.
here comes lorenzo .
when he came to himself again ,  he said ,  if he had done or said anything amiss ,  he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity .
i find it still ,  when i have leave to sleep .
you gentle romans—     peace ,  ho !
hear me yet, good shylock.
the door is open ,  sir .
i will not entertain so bad a thought.
i will have nothing else but only this; and now, methinks, i have a mind to it.
as caesar loved me ,  i weep for him .
twill be ill taken .
a gentleman .
close by ,  my master .
illo ,  ho ,  ho ,  my lord !
all offices are open ,  and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven .
he is not the flower of courtesy ,  but ,  i’ll warrant him ,  as gentle as a lamb .
what sayst thou ,  my dear nurse ?
thou art the armorer of my heart .
i say i love thee more than he can do .
till i know 'tis done ,  howe'er my haps ,  my joys were ne'er begun .
presently?
o ratcliffe ,  i have dreamed a fearful dream !
god in heaven bless her!
i had as lief be wooed of a snail .
tis known before .
i am almost afraid to stand alone here in the churchyard; yet i will adventure.
good friend ,  go to him ,  for by this light of heaven ,  i know not how i lost him .
i but believe it partly ,  for i am fresh of spirit and resolved to meet all perils very constantly .
infected be the air whereon they ride ,  and damn'd all those that trust them !
give me your hand .
what is't, ophelia, he hath said to you?
nay ,  i beseech you ,  sir ,  be not out with me; yet ,  if you be out ,  sir ,  i can mend you .
what is the matter ?
cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once.
in such a night ,  did young lorenzo swear he lov'd her well; stealing her soul with many vows of faith ,  and ne'er a true one .
she has light by her continually .
patience, good sir.
wheresoever you had it, i'll take out no work on't.
tyrant, show thy face!
the moor replies that he you hurt is of great fame in cyprus and great affinity, and that in wholesome wisdom he might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you, and needs no other suitor but his likings to take the safest occasion by the front to bring you in again.
come ,  balthasar ,  we’ll hear that song again .
remember thee ?
most constantly.
but yet i feel i fear .
she ate no meat today ,  nor none shall eat .
o me, o me!
let me see ,  let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down where i left reading ?
beware macduff; beware the thane of fife.
their preparation is today by sea .
why ,  that he did—i know not what he did .
but i have words that would be howl'd out in the desert air ,  where hearing should not latch them .
hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks, with thy black mantle till strange love, grown bold, think true love acted simple modesty.
belike ’tis but a rumor .
filth ,  thou liest !
madam ,  not yet .
if thou more murmur'st, i will rend an oak, and peg thee in his knotty entrails till thou hast howled away twelve winters.
hold ,  for shame !
have you eyes ?
the ottomites ,  reverend and gracious ,  steering with due course toward the isle of rhodes ,  have there injointed them with an after fleet .
the man that once did sell the lion’s skin while the beast lived was killed with hunting him .
we are three of them .
so, oft it chances in particular men, that for some vicious mole of nature in them, as in their birth—wherein they are not guilty, since nature cannot choose his origin— by the o'ergrowth of some complexion, oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason, or by some habit that too much o'erleavens the form of plausive manners, that these men— carrying, i say, the stamp of one defect, being nature's livery, or fortune's star— their virtues else—be they as pure as grace, as infinite as man may undergo— shall in the general censure take corruption from that particular fault.
they say you are a melancholy fellow .
if chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me without my stir.
here comes his majesty .
what a pied ninny's this!
cobweb .
who comes with her ?
not know my voice !
hark ,  canst thou hear me ?
is in his retirement ,  marvellous distempered .
why ,  i am glad on ’t .
nay ,  i know not .
tis yours ,  and we ,  your scutcheons and your signs of conquest ,  shall hang in what place you please .
i speak not to disprove what brutus spoke, but here i am to speak what i do know.
not from his mouth ,  had it the ability of life to thank you .
i cannot but remember such things were, that were most precious to me.
we’ll ha ’t tomorrow night .
go carry them, and smear the sleepy grooms with blood.
i speak too loud . — where’s malvolio ?
thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
dost thou hear ?
the fault’s your own .
do not you hear a cry ?
tis true ,  my brother’s daughter’s queen of tunis ,  so is she heir of naples ,  ’twixt which regions there is some space .
and yet for aught i see ,  they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing .
hark !
thou canst tell why one’s nose stands i' th' middle on ’s face ?
i have slept ,  my lord ,  already .
his liberty is full of threats to all, to you yourself, to us, to every one.
then would to god that i had never seen't!
if you had known the virtue of the ring ,  or half her worthiness that gave the ring ,  or your own honor to contain the ring ,  you would not then have parted with the ring .
true, madam; he, of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon, was the best deserving a fair lady.
to adriana .
this is i, hamlet the dane.
a proper man .
cannot you tell that?
the duke of exeter doth love thee well .
forget to think of her .
but why ,  why ,  why ?
and so had i ,  but yet ,  for fashion sake ,  i thank you too for your society .
o hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
shylock, there's thrice thy money offer'd thee.
roderigo !
how far’st thou ,  soldier ?
all this done, repair to pompey's porch, where you shall find us.
what’s the noise ?
let him look to his bond .
think'st thou i'ld make a life of jealousy, to follow still the changes of the moon with fresh suspicions?
nay ,  i have ta'en you napping ,  gentle love ,  and have forsworn you with hortensio .
only th’ adulterous antony ,  most large in his abominations ,  turns you off and gives his potent regiment to a trull that noises it against us .
bring forth men-children only, for thy undaunted mettle should compose nothing but males.
a thousand ,  sir ,  early though ’t be ,  have on their riveted trim and at the port expect you .
i will bite thee by the ear for that jest .
m . o . a . i .  ”  this simulation is not as the former ,  and yet to crush this a little ,  it would bow to me ,  for every one of these letters are in my name .
had i three ears ,  i'd hear thee .
how idly do they talk !
may i with right and conscience make this claim ?
if to preserve this vessel for my lord from any other foul unlawful touch be not to be a strumpet, i am none.
none in the world ,  nor do i know the man .
my grandam told me he was murdered there .
fie ,  how impatience loureth in your face .
ha ,  ha !
i saw no man use you at his pleasure .
tis a lost fear .
how now ,  my love ?
my lord ,  when at their home i did commend your highness' letters to them .
i thank it .
farewell .
get thee to bed.
the single and peculiar life is bound with all the strength and armour of the mind to keep itself from noyance; but much more that spirit upon whose weal depends and rests the lives of many.
there lies that tybalt.
why ,  headstrong liberty is lashed with woe .
o limèd soul that ,  struggling to be free ,  art more engaged !
if there come truth from them— as upon thee ,  macbeth ,  their speeches shine— why ,  by the verities on thee made good ,  may they not be my oracles as well ,  and set me up in hope ?
but now i was the lord of this fair mansion ,  master of my servants ,  queen o'er myself .
she was a vixen when she went to school .
now ,  by my maidenhead at twelve year old ,  i bade her come .
coming from sardis ,  on our former ensign two mighty eagles fell ,  and there they perch'd ,  gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands ,  who to philippi here consorted us .
o ,  by this count i shall be much in years ere i again behold my romeo !
give me thy hand .
o excellent young man !
thou art a lady .
what didst not like ?
you told a lie, an odious, damned lie; upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie!
first ,  if all obstacles were cut away and that my path were even to the crown as the ripe revenue and due of birth ,  yet so much is my poverty of spirit ,  so mighty and so many my defects ,  that i would rather hide me from my greatness ,  being a bark to brook no mighty sea ,  than in my greatness covet to be hid and in the vapor of my glory smothered .
the music ,  ho !
where is duncan's body ?
o ,  this is counter ,  you false danish dogs !
if you come slack of former services ,  you shall do well .
some officers take them away .
what horrible fancy's this ?
and so far am i glad it so did sort ,  as this their jangling i esteem a sport .
i had forgot—three months .
you fools!
how ?
fetch't, let me see it.
i have it not about me .
call forth nathaniel ,  joseph ,  nicholas ,  philip ,  walter ,  sugarsop ,  and the rest .
what shall we hear of this?
the tempest in my mind doth from my senses take all feeling else save what beats there—filial ingratitude .
where is the villain ,  edmund ?
eyes ,  look your last .
and ,  friends ,  disperse yourselves .
go to .
let me not hinder ,  cassius ,  your desires .
by-and-by, i come.— to cease thy suit and leave me to my grief.
first resolve me that .
where’s antony ?
i wonder in my soul, what you would ask me, that i should deny, or stand so mammering on.
tis now the very witching time of night, when churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out contagion to this world.
goats and monkeys!
this tune goes manly .
old cassius still!
you know not what you do .
run to your houses ,  fall upon your knees ,  pray to the gods to intermit the plague that needs must light on this ingratitude .
swell ,  bosom ,  with thy fraught ,  for 'tis of aspics' tongues !
ay ,  madam ,  it is common .
those linen cheeks of thine are counselors to fear.
hath homely age th' alluring beauty took from my poor cheek ?
by your pardon, i will myself into the pulpit first, and show the reason of our caesar's death.
let it be a quarrel between us ,  if you live .
i would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection .
i am glad to see you mad.
i am very glad to see you .
follow her close; give her good watch, i pray you.
love ,  and be friends as two such men should be .
the count is neither sad ,  nor sick ,  nor merry ,  nor well ,  but civil count ,  civil as an orange ,  and something of that jealous complexion .
then plainly know my heart’s dear love is set on the fair daughter of rich capulet .
although i hate her ,  i'll not harm her so .
look ,  look ,  titinius: are those my tents where i perceive the fire ?
sir, march is wasted fifteen days.
aside.
lead him to my bower .
lo!
thy reason ,  dear venom ,  give thy reason .
and ,  i think ,  if my breast had not been made of faith ,  and my heart of steel ,  she had transformed me to a curtal dog and made me turn i' th' wheel .
soft stillness and the night become the touches of sweet harmony .
much is breeding  which ,  like the courser’s hair ,  hath yet but life ,  and not a serpent’s poison .
after your death you were better have a bad epitaph than their ill report while you live .
we doubt it nothing .
what are you?
why should the poor be flatter'd ?
it is called wye at monmouth ,  but it is out of my prains what is the name of the other river .
i think i hear them.
our whole city is much bound to him .
i should not then ask casca what had chanced .
they did ,  fluellen .
i do entreat you, not a man depart, save i alone, till antony have spoke.
o brother montague ,  give me thy hand .
if you do love rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries it out ,  when your brother marries aliena shall you marry her .
which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young .
i did not think you could have been so angry .
i can be patient .
is he married ?
macbeth !
a greater gift than that i’ll give my cousin .
is not this stephano ,  my drunken butler ?
i prithee, boy, run to the senate-house; stay not to answer me, but get thee gone.
it is some meteor that the sun exhales to be to thee this night a torchbearer ,  and light thee on thy way to mantua .
give them the foils, young osric.
trinculo ,  if you trouble him any more in ’s tale ,  by this hand ,  i will supplant some of your teeth .
where ,  where ,  messala ,  doth his body lie ?
o husband!
moreover that we much did long to see you ,  the need we have to use you did provoke our hasty sending .
father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is one flesh; and so ,  my mother .
i do believe that these applauses are for some new honors that are heap'd on caesar.
see how yon justice rails upon yon simple thief .
bate ,  i beseech you ,  widow dido .
this admiration ,  sir ,  is much o' th' savor of other your new pranks .
if thou be'st valiant—as they say base men being in love have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them—list me.
what says the silver ,  with her virgin hue ?
say ,  if th' hadst rather hear it from our mouths ,  or from our masters' .
tis since the earthquake now eleven years; and she was wean'd (i never shall forget it) ,  of all the days of the year ,  upon that day; for i had then laid wormwood to my dug ,  sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall .
are all thy conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  spoils ,  shrunk to this little measure ?
behind the abbey wall within this hour my man shall be with thee and bring thee cords made like a tackled stair ,  which to the high top - gallant of my joy must be my convoy in the secret night .
i am not merry ,  but i do beguile the thing i am by seeming otherwise .
farewell .
i am constant to my purposes; they follow the king's pleasure.
i'll to him; he is hid at laurence’ cell .
i now perceive it was not altogether your brother’s evil disposition made him seek his death ,  but a provoking merit set awork by a reprovable badness in himself .
he is arrived .
no ,  caesar hath it not .
alas ,  iago ,  my lord hath so bewhored her ,  thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her ,  that true hearts cannot bear it .
but no more deep will i endart mine eye than your consent gives strength to make it fly .
you show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds, and bow'd like bondmen, kissing caesar's feet; whilst damned casca, like a cur, behind struck caesar on the neck.
he is a sailmaker in bergamo .
i escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors heaved o'erboard—by this bottle ,  which i made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands since i was cast ashore .
she’s dead too ,  our sovereign .
would you would bear your fortune like a man !
what ,  not a word ?
hang thee, young baggage!
nay ,  gentle romeo ,  we must have you dance .
uncouple in the western valley .
i am a fool to weep at what i am glad of .
no ,  my fair cousin .
the  “ fiery ”  duke ?
be ruled by me; depart in patience ,  and let us to the tiger all to dinner ,  and about evening come yourself alone to know the reason of this strange restraint .
this is the night that either makes me or fordoes me quite .
weep'st thou for him to my face?
what is the matter ?
octavius, then take him to follow thee that did the latest service to my master.
then, tell me, who's the next heir of naples?
aside .
you swore to me ,  when i did give it you ,  that you would wear it till your hour of death; and that it should lie with you in your grave: though not for me ,  yet for your vehement oaths ,  you should have been respective ,  and have kept it .
oh ,  that his fault should make a knave of thee ,  that art not what th’ art sure of !
o heavens !
what shall i know of thee ?
a dog of the house of montague moves me.
your worship in that sense may call him man .
now he goes, with no less presence, but with much more love, than young alcides, when he did redeem the virgin tribute paid by howling troy to the sea-monster: i stand for sacrifice, the rest aloof are the dardanian wives, with bleared visages, come forth to view the issue of the exploit.
question it, horatio.
the strings ,  my lord ,  are false .
do you hear ,  cassio ?
virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied, and vice sometime's by action dignified.
i pray you ,  jest ,  sir ,  as you sit at dinner .
why then ,  your uncle and the prince and claudio have been deceived .
i was sure your lordship did not give it me.
the thrice three muses mourning for the death  of learning ,  late deceased in beggary .  ”  that is some satire ,  keen and critical ,  not sorting with a nuptial ceremony .
answer me like men .
art thou not, fatal vision, sensible to feeling as to sight?
clubs, bills, and partisans!
what cursed foot wanders this way to - night to cross my obsequies and true love's rite ?
now bid me run ,  and i will strive with things impossible ,  yea ,  get the better of them .
why, what you will.
sir ,  i bade them take away you .
bethink you .
i do; and surely it is a sleepy language and thou speak'st out of thy sleep.
how now ,  roderigo !
younger than you ,  here in verona ,  ladies of esteem ,  are made already mothers .
but for the bloody napkin ?
art thou a churchman ?
for do but stand upon the foaming shore ,  the chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds ,  the wind - shaked surge ,  with high and monstrous mane ,  seems to cast water on the burning bear ,  and quench the guards of th' ever - fixèd pole .
i think she will be rul'd in all respects by me; nay more, i doubt it not.
but god above deal between thee and me !
o woeful day!
three thousand ducats ,  well .
i have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking .
no more o’ that ,  my lord ,  no more o’ that .
what if this cursed hand were thicker than itself with brother's blood, is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens to wash it white as snow?
now i change my mind ,  and partly credit things that do presage .
awake !
hang ,  cur ,  hang ,  you whoreson ,  insolent noise -  maker !
he is ready at the door: he comes ,  my lord .
this is a strange repose ,  to be asleep with eyes wide open; standing ,  speaking ,  moving ,  and yet so fast asleep .
this was a merry message .
away ,  slight man !
mass ,  and well said; a merry whoreson ,  ha !
there’s no clock in the forest .
prithee no more!
and prompt me ,  plain and holy innocence !
i should be still plucking the grass, to know where sits the wind; peering in maps, for ports, and piers, and roads: and every object that might make me fear misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt would make me sad.
thrice hath calpurnia in her sleep cried out, “help, ho!
ay, if i be alive, and your mind hold, and your dinner worth the eating.
then shall i bleed to death.
i thank thee .
sir ,  fare you well .
it was his bidding .
tell me thine first .
uncle ,  i must come forth .
alive in triumph—and mercutio slain !
farewell !
give him this and bid him keep it better than the other .
tis the infirmity of his age .
like to lysander sometime frame thy tongue, then stir demetrius up with bitter wrong; and sometime rail thou like demetrius; and from each other look thou lead them thus, till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep with leaden legs and batty wings doth creep.
this the nature whom passion could not shake ?
i'll give thee a wind.
it’s suppertime ,  my lord .
if they do see thee, they will murder thee.
take in the topsail.
i think thou dost; and for i know thou'rt full of love and honesty and weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath ,  therefore these stops of thine fright me the more; for such things in a false disloyal knave are tricks of custom; but in a man that's just they're close dilations ,  working from the heart ,  that passion cannot rule .
read .
i’ll be with thee betimes .
if such tricks as these strip you out of your lieutenantry ,  it had been better you had not kissed your three fingers so oft ,  which now again you are most apt to play the sir in .
i am afeard you make a wanton of me .
what ,  art thou ashamed of me ?
are all the rest come back ?
tis most convenient .
what ,  are you hurt ,  lieutenant ?
nay ,  but ask my opinion too of that .
i thank you for your company ,  but ,  good faith ,  i had as lief have been myself alone .
he’s gone .
thy case ,  dear friend ,  shall be my precedent: as thou got'st milan ,  i'll come by naples .
make we our march towards birnam
ask her forgiveness ?
why, he that cuts off twenty years of life cuts off so many years of fearing death.
i could not send it—here it is again— nor get a messenger to bring it thee, so fearful were they of infection.
since they did plot the means that dusky dis my daughter got ,  her and her blind boy's scandaled company i have forsworn .
claribel .
is't possible a young maid's wits should be as mortal as an old man's life ?
good cinna ,  take this paper ,  and look you lay it in the praetor’s chair where brutus may but find it .
he is welcome hither .
lord ,  what though ?
i wonder if titania be awaked; then, what it was that next came in her eye, which she must dote on in extremity.
here comes brabantio and the valiant moor.
then ,  brutus ,  i have much mistook your passion ,  by means whereof this breast of mine hath buried thoughts of great value ,  worthy cogitations .
hast thou the flower there ?
even for the blood that then i lost for thee ,  now grant me justice .
or have we eaten on the insane root that takes the reason prisoner?
yet more quarrelling with occasion!
the will, the will!
not a jot ,  not a jot .
i think i had .
cousin ,  there's fall'n between him and my lord an unkind breech; but you shall make all well .
these babes for clarence weep and so do i; i for an edward weep; so do not they .
they did so ,  to th' amazement of mine eyes that looked upon ’t .
how beauteous mankind is !
we have used to conquer standing on the earth and fighting foot to foot .
i am not yet so low but that my nails can reach unto thine eyes .
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand !
ay ,  if you dare do yourself a profit and a right .
stop there, stop there!
this [aside] why speaks my father so urgently?
no ,  since .
the dearest friend to me, the kindest man, the best-condition'd and unwearied spirit in doing courtesies; and one in whom the ancient roman honour more appears, than any that draws breath in italy.
o that she knew she were!
tush, never tell me!
but age with his stealing steps hath clawed me in his clutch ,  and hath shipped me intil the land ,  as if i had never been such .
that can i .
monday ,  my lord .
let's withdraw ,  my lord .
how now, my lord?
fetch the will hither ,  and we shall determine how to cut off some charge in legacies .
sir ,  sir ,  that cannot be .
eros ,  wouldst thou be windowed in great rome and see thy master thus with pleached arms ,  bending down his corrigible neck ,  his face subdued to penetrative shame ,  whilst the wheeled seat of fortunate caesar ,  drawn before him ,  branded his baseness that ensued ?
i prithee ,  shepherd ,  if that love or gold can in this desert place buy entertainment ,  bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed .
the villain is much lighter - heeled than i .  i followed fast ,  but faster he did fly ,  that fallen am i in dark uneven way ,
wear thou thy wrongs; the title is affeer'd.
you must bear with me .
but i beseech your grace pardon me .
how now, cassio!
thou must not take my former sharpness ill .
speak, man.
call her forth to me .
i have no power upon you .
o cassius ,  you are yoked with a lamb ,  that carries anger as the flint bears fire ,  who ,  much enforced ,  shows a hasty spark and straight is cold again .
all springs reduce their currents to mine eyes ,  that i ,  being governed by the watery moon ,  may send forth plenteous tears to drown the world .
if it please the eye of one ,  it is with me as the very true sonnet is ,   “ please one ,  and please all .  ”   why ,  how dost thou ,  man ?
give me thy hand .
she speaks much of her father; says she hears there's tricks i' the world, and hems, and beats her heart; spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt, that carry but half sense.
hoyday ,  a riddle !
whither away?
i know you .
i’ll venture so much of my hawk or hound ,  but twenty times so much upon my wife .
we’ll see our husbands before they think of us .
i’ll pay thy pleasure then .
first ,  know my horse is tired ,  my master and mistress fallen out .
if she should break it now !
welcome ,  signior .
i think not so ,  my lord .
here ,  here !
first ,  of my word !
oh ,  villain !
i prithee, do so.
let us take the law of our sides .
that will never be .
the grief that does not speak whispers the o'er fraught heart ,  and bids it break .
letters ,  my lord ,  from hamlet .
fare thee well ,  lord .
pleaseth your grace to appoint some of your council presently to sit with us once more with better heed to resurvey them ,  we will suddenly pass our accept and peremptory answer .
be ’t as our gods will have ’t .
i would have sworn it had ,  my lord ,  especially against benedick .
cleopatra ,  not what you have reserved nor what acknowledged put we i’ th’ roll of conquest .
but let me to my fortune and the caskets .
what ,  ho ,  horatio !
no, as i am a christian.
i afeard of him !
nothing is good ,  i see ,  without respect .
too late ,  good diomed .
sleep shall neither night nor day hang upon his penthouse lid .
in which addition, hail, most worthy thane, for it is thine.
i dreamt my lady came and found me dead (strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think!
what say you ,  bottom ?
fool oh ,  he’s drunk ,  sir toby ,  an hour agone .
i did not .
what ,  are you answer'd yet ?
now ,  unto thy bones good night !
eros ,  thou yet behold’st me ?
for all the rest, they'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk; they'll tell the clock to any business that we say befits the hour.
i remember a mass of things ,  but nothing distinctly; a quarrel ,  but nothing wherefore .
i’ll have the work ta'en out and give ’t iago .
but yesterday the word of caesar might have stood against the world.
no ,  my lord ,  unless i might have another for working days .
my royal lord ,  you do not give the cheer .
locked in her monument .
there i shall see mine own figure .
o desdemona !
will you yield and this avoid or ,  guilty in defense ,  be thus destroyed ?
therefore no marvel though demetrius do ,  as a monster ,  fly my presence thus .
the day is broke .
why ,  would that have mended my hair ?
hell is murky .
madam, i am not well.
stand fast ,  titinius .
i thank thee .
what had he done, to make him fly the land?
o good horatio, i'll take the ghost's word for a thousand pound!
appear and pertly !
now, fair hippolyta, our nuptial hour draws on apace; four happy days bring in another moon; but, o, methinks, how slow this old moon wanes!
farewell ,  father .
tybalt ,  mercutio ,  the prince expressly hath forbid this bandying in verona streets .
go by ,  saint jeronimy .
give me the cups; and let the kettle to the trumpet speak, the trumpet to the cannoneer without, the cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth, ‘now the king drinks to hamlet.’ come, begin.
sir, sir, sir— but thou must needs be sure my spirit and my place have in them power to make this bitter to thee.
how ,  the nonpareil !
what is her burying grave, that is her womb; and from her womb children of divers kind we sucking on her natural bosom find; many for many virtues excellent, none but for some, and yet all different.
no ,  truly ,  sir; not a penny .
by providence divine .
answer to that.
what is his strength by land ?
a mighty strength they carry .
we have been up and down to seek him.
i will not think it .
as i did sleep under this yew tree here ,  i dreamt my master and another fought ,  and that my master slew him .
well ,  my lord .
let me go with you .
how now !
and a good lady ,  and a wise and virtuous .
do not doubt, cassio, but i will have my lord and you again as friendly as you were.
what ring gave you my lord?
my masters ,  are you mad ?
my lord of burgundy .
there may as well be amity and life 'tween snow and fire ,  as treason and my love .
i know not what may fall; i like it not .
i shall offend ,  either to detain or give it .
tell not me of mercy;— this is the fool that lent out money gratis;— gaoler, look to him.
no ,  cassius ,  no .
is't come to this ?
helen ,  it is not so .
has this fellow no feeling of his business ,  that he sings at grave - making ?
o banquo, banquo!
a gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips— not body's death ,  but body's banishment .
by jupiter ,  were i the wearer of antonio’s beard ,  i would not shave ’t today .
the tyranny of the open night’s too rough for nature to endure .
spare not for the cost .
acquaint her here of my son paris' love ,  and bid her ,  mark you me ,  on wednesday next— but ,  soft !
sometimes a thousand twangling instruments will hum about mine ears ,  and sometime voices that ,  if i then had waked after long sleep ,  will make me sleep again: and then ,  in dreaming ,  the clouds methought would open and show riches ready to drop upon me ,  that when i waked i cried to dream again .
proud ,  ”  and  “ i thank you ,  ”  and  “ i thank you not ,  ”  and yet  “ not proud ”  ?
o royal caesar !
my suit to her is that she will to virtuous desdemona procure me some access .
weary se'nnights nine times nine shall he dwindle, peak, and pine; though his bark cannot be lost, yet it shall be tempest-tost.
he, swift of foot, outran my purpose; and i return'd the rather for that i heard the clink and fall of swords, and cassio high in oath, which till tonight i ne'er might say before.
believe me for mine honor ,  and have respect to mine honor that you may believe .
while then ,  god be with you !
ingratitude ,  thou marble - hearted fiend ,  more hideous when thou show’st thee in a child than the sea monster .
my liberty .
the law, that threat'ned death, becomes thy friend and turns it to exile.
legged like a man and his fins like arms !
be wary ,  then .
my wife!
meet me by and by at the citadel .
but ,  look !
strike ,  drum .
may we be gone ?
how i dote on thee !
do not presume too much upon my love .
the greater therefore should our courage be .
then the whining schoolboy with his satchel and shining morning face ,  creeping like snail unwillingly to school .
here's my son, sir, a poor boy,— not a poor boy, sir, but the rich jew's man; that would, sir, as my father shall specify,— he hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve,— indeed, the short and the long is, i serve the jew, and have a desire, as my father shall specify,— his master and he (saving your worship's reverence) are scarce cater-cousins:— to be brief, the very truth is, that the jew having done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father, being i hope an old man, shall frutify unto you, — i have here a dish of doves, that i would bestow upon your worship; and my suit is,— in very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as your worship shall know by this honest old man; and, though i say it, though old man, yet, poor man, my father.
aside .
how sweet is love itself possess'd, when but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
utter my thoughts?
get him to say his prayers ,  good sir toby ,  get him to pray .
well ,  may you see things well done there .
thou may'st, i warrant we shall have old swearing, that they did give the rings away to men; but we'll outface them, and outswear them too.
as well as i can ,  madam .
read it, mark antony.
take it in what sense thou wilt .
for me ,  with sorrow i embrace my fortune .
this is as strange a maze as e'er men trod ,  and there is in this business more than nature was ever conduct of .
pray, give me that; i'll carry it to the pile.
what is the matter, ho?
go on, and see whether brutus be alive or dead, and bring us word unto octavius' tent how every thing is chanced.
caesar did write for him to come to rome .
he passes some humors and careers .
what it should be, more than his father's death, that thus hath put him so much from the understanding of himself, i cannot dream of.
i will say so .
he speaks to me . —i am your master ,  dromio .
pray thee ,  sweet mistress margaret ,  deserve well at my hands by helping me to the speech of beatrice .
i do not know ,  my lord ,  what i should think .
i thank you for this profit, and from hence i'll love no friend sith love breeds such offense.
now by my life ,  old fools are babes again and must be used with checks as flatteries ,  when they are seen abused .
i would not follow him then .
such tricks hath strong imagination that, if it would but apprehend some joy, it comprehends some bringer of that joy; or in the night, imagining some fear, how easy is a bush supposed a bear?
you peers ,  continue this united league .
but look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
i'll go farther off .
waking] why ,  how now ?
the punto reverso!
why ,  because he was mad .
what, man!
i pray thee, hear me speak.
now ,  the next day was our sea - fight; and what to this was sequent thou know'st already .
but if these— as i am sure they do—bear fire enough to kindle cowards and to steel with valor the melting spirits of women ,  then ,  countrymen ,  what need we any spur but our own cause to prick us to redress ?
i am aweary .
all which time before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers to them for you .
fill, lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup; i cannot drink too much of brutus' love.
the last was i that felt thy tyranny .
what’s your will ?
to the boatswain] now, [to the boatswain] now, blasphemy, that swear'st grace o'erboard: not an oath on shore?
here he comes .
but you must learn to know such slanders of the age ,  or else you may be marvelously mistook .
one more, one more; be thus when thou art dead, and i will kill thee, and love thee after.
but if we fail ,  we then can do ’t at land .
best you safed the bringer out of the host .
i am unfit for state and majesty .
thou art come to answer a stony adversary ,  an inhuman wretch uncapable of pity ,  void and empty from any dram of mercy .
did i not meet thy friends?
but tell us ,  do you hear whether antonio have had any loss at sea or no ?
the  “ why ”  is plain as way to parish church: he that a fool doth very wisely hit doth very foolishly ,  although he smart ,  not to seem senseless of the bob .
if thou dost play with him at any game ,  thou art sure to lose ,  and of that natural luck he beats thee ’gainst the odds .
i would to god all strifes were well compounded .
there’s none else by .
i pray you ,  pass with your best violence .
how say you by this change ?
do so .
expose thyself to feel what wretches feel ,  that thou mayst shake the superflux to them and show the heavens more just .
dismiss me ?
you are welcome .
what ,  shall i groan and tell thee ?
i could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment .
say ,  when ?
hear me ,  good friends—
from this time such i account thy love .
ay ,  so i thought .
this quarry cries on havoc .
but for the seventh cause .
i think it be thine indeed ,  for thou liest in't .
o, widow dido!
yes, as sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
oh ,  god 'i' good e'en .
out, you baggage!
fie !
i pray you, sir, what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his ropery?
calmly, good laertes.
pray god ,  your voice ,  like a piece of uncurrent gold ,  be not cracked within the ring .
the wisdom of your duty ,  fair bianca ,  hath cost me an hundred crowns since suppertime .
are you of good or evil ?
then thou art damned .
witness the hole you made in caesar's heart ,  crying  “ long live !
come, some music!
o ,  horrible !
ready .
now have i done a good day’s work .
i will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
at last i left them i' th' filthy - mantled pool beyond your cell ,  there dancing up to th' chins ,  that the foul lake o'erstunk their feet .
well, well.
enough .
my lord ?
things have fall'n out ,  sir ,  so unluckily ,  that we have had no time to move our daughter .
now i am alone .
what do i fear ?
truly ,  i would the gods had made thee poetical .
and so i am ,  i am .
how now ,  my sweet bianca !
in what particular thought to work i know not; but ,  in the gross and scope of my opinion ,  this bodes some strange eruption to our state .
see, they encounter thee with their hearts’ thanks.
fie, fie!
o heaven ! —how got she out ?
and ,  dying so ,  death is to him advantage; or not dying ,  the time was blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained .
have you pray'd tonight ,  desdemona ?
know that it was he, in the times past, which held you so under fortune, which you thought had been our innocent self?
and i pray god grant them a fair departure .
you shall not come to them .
twould anger him to raise a spirit in his mistress’ circle of some strange nature, letting it there stand till she had laid it and conjur'd it down.
the wife of antony should have an army for an usher and the neighs of horse to tell of her approach long ere she did appear .
my lord is often thus and hath been from his youth .
have you sent to bottom’s house ?
ha !
i fear you have sold your own lands to see other men’s .
pronounce that sentence then on me ,  my liege .
do you triumph?
my husband say that she was false !
if she live long ,  and in the end meet the old course of death ,  women will all turn monsters .
so is he now in execution of any bold or noble enterprise ,  however he puts on this tardy form .
wash they his wounds with tears ?
you must not think i am so simple but i know the devil himself will not eat a woman .
the note lies in ’s throat ,  if he say i said so .
unfought withal ,  but i will sell my dukedom to buy a slobb'ry and a dirty farm in that nook - shotten isle of albion .
just as high as my heart .
who’s there ?
a sweet woman!
therein, ye gods, you make the weak most strong; therein, ye gods, you tyrants do defeat.
sue to him again, and he's yours.
o you hard hearts, you cruel men of rome, knew you not pompey?
and nothing is at a like goodness still .
it comes upon me . —art thou any thing ?
ha ?
i take this offer then: pay the bond thrice and let the christian go .
i have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily qualified too, and behold what innovation it makes here.
he is drunk now .
how does your patient, doctor?
shall i entreat a word?
only this commendation i can afford her ,  that were she other than she is ,  she were unhandsome ,  and being no other but as she is ,  i do not like her .
tis given out that ,  sleeping in mine orchard ,  a serpent stung me .
what means this shouting ?
i will pour some in [caliban drinks] thy other mouth.
what are you here that cry so grievously?
o woeful day!
madam ,  there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires to speak with you .
do you know where we may apprehend her and the moor ?
wouldst thou aught with me?
but what see i ?
i know you by the waggling of your head .
now your jest is earnest .
fare you well .
dost thou think so, spirit?
here is yet a postscript .
what rein can hold licentious wickedness when down the hill he holds his fierce career ?
away, go!
the gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you .
right true it is your son lucentio here doth love my daughter and she loveth him ,  or both dissemble deeply their affections .
awake ,  sir ,  awake .
but god above deal between thee and me!
i meant plain holy thistle .
nobody come?
go you and tell her of it .
what imports the nomination of this gentleman?
roast me in sulphur!
tis hamlet's character.
i am sorry that with better heed and judgment i had not quoted him .
how long hath he been there?
to take ’t again perforce— monster ingratitude !
if trembling i inhabit then, protest me the baby of a girl.
i thought the king had more affected the duke of albany than cornwall .
take your place .
hence ,  horrible shadow !
a friendly eye could never see such faults.
is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
thou praisest the worst best .
o thou weed ,  who art so lovely fair and smell’st so sweet that the sense aches at thee ,  would thou hadst ne'er been born !
rather approach’d too late !
where?
waking] why, how now?
what, will these hands ne'er be clean?
the greatest is behind .
i do beseech you that are of suppler joints ,  follow them swiftly ,  and hinder them from this ecstasy may now provoke them to .
there ,  sir ,  stop .
wert thou as young as i, juliet thy love, an hour but married, tybalt murdered, doting like me, and like me banished, then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair, and fall upon the ground, as i do now, taking the measure of an unmade grave.
hold, for your lives!
but make amends now .
with what addition ?
o wise young judge, how i do honour thee!
what if it be a poison which the friar subtly hath ministr'd to have me dead, lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd because he married me before to romeo?
whiles i threat, he lives; words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
poor men alone ?
if sight and shape be true ,  why then ,  my love adieu .
damn her ,  lewd minx !
so you must take your husbands.
swear priests and cowards and men cautelous, old feeble carrions and such suffering souls that welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain the even virtue of our enterprise, nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits, to think that or our cause or our performance did need an oath; when every drop of blood that every roman bears, and nobly bears, is guilty of a several bastardy if he do break the smallest particle of any promise that hath pass'd from him.
o regan ,  goneril ,  your old kind father ,  whose frank heart gave all— oh ,  that way madness lies .
and ,  gentle puck ,  take this transformèd scalp from off the head of this athenian swain ,  that ,  he awaking when the other do ,  may all to athens back again repair and think no more of this night’s accidents but as the fierce vexation of a dream .
my brother gloucester’s voice . —ay ,  i know thy errand .
run when you will; the story shall be changed: apollo flies ,  and daphne holds the chase; the dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind makes speed to catch the tiger; bootless speed ,  when cowardice pursues and valour flies .
are they so followed ?
if it assume my noble father’s person ,  i’ll speak to it ,  though hell itself should gape and bid me hold my peace .
then bid them prepare dinner.
hark you ,  guildenstern ,  and you too—at each ear a hearer !
sir ,  there she stands .
trebonius knows his time ,  for ,  look you ,  brutus ,  he draws mark antony out of the way .
call 'em .
but in this case of wooing ,  a child shall get a sire ,  if i fail not of my cunning .
tear him for his bad verses, tear him for his bad verses.
right joyous are we to behold your face ,  most worthy brother england .
what, ho!
does't not go well?
freedom ,  high - day ,  freedom !
she is never sad but when she sleeps ,  and not ever sad then ,  for i have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing .
you say true; 'tis so, indeed.
i pray thee ,  cease thy counsel ,  which falls into mine ears as profitless as water in a sieve .
well held out ,  i' faith .
tis not yet near day .
hast thou slain tybalt ?
no harm .
o my prophetic soul!
let him command ,  and to obey shall be in me remorse ,  what bloody business ever .
a cry more tuneable was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn, in crete, in sparta, nor in thessaly.
show .
go to him ,  dolabella ,  bid him yield .
we did ,  my lord ,  weeping and commenting upon the sobbing deer .
offended us you have not ,  but the king .
tis a notorious villain .
i hear some noise .
let's take leave of him.
who knows if donalbain be with his brother?
meantime we thank you for your well - took labor .
go to the gate .
comes the king forth ,  i pray you ?
your letters did withhold our breaking forth till we perceived both how you were wrong led and we in negligent danger .
tis time to part.
in such a night, did jessica steal from the wealthy jew, and with an unthrift love did run from venice, as far as belmont.
she says you have some goodly jest in hand .
i mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
that's fouler .
brought you caesar home ?
i there it goes ,  silver !
this savors not much of distraction .
o hell!
at nine i' the morning here we'll meet again .
you tremble and look pale.
my lord, i do not know, but truly i do fear it.
then heaven have mercy on me!
the english force ,  so please you .
speak!
o heavy deed !
some such squire he was that turn'd your wit the seamy side without ,  and made you to suspect me with the moor .
come ,  let us to the banquet .
what cannot be preserved when fortune takes ,  patience her injury a mockery makes .
you could ,  for a need ,  study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which i would set down and insert in ’t ,  could you not ?
yon light is not daylight; i know it, i.
it is something of my negligence ,  nothing of my purpose .
your commission’s ready .
tis strange ,  my theseus ,  that these lovers speak of .
shine out ,  fair sun ,  till i have bought a glass ,  that i may see my shadow as i pass .
o, he's the courageous captain of compliments.
marry ,  you may partly hope that your father got you not ,  that you are not the jew’s daughter .
well, proceed.
they are not near my conscience; their defeat does by their own insinuation grow .
fiend angelical !
so he laughed and let me go .
no ,  i warrant you; i will not adventure my discre -  tion so weakly .
too high to be enthrall'd to low.
you have too much respect upon the world .
a tailor made thee .
i know no answer .
anon ,  anon !
but are you so much in love as your rhymes speak ?
tis his fashion .
the jew shall have my flesh ,  blood ,  bones ,  and all ,  ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood .
but as ’tis ,  we cannot miss him .
if thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear: thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer.
the prince of arragon hath ta'en his oath and comes to his election presently .
is ’t possible ?
were such things here as we do speak about ?
who are you ?
stand still .
therefore away ,  to get our stuff aboard .
i should venture purgatory for't.
faith ,  some certain dregs of conscience are yet within me .
prithee ,  peace .
fare you well .
it is othello's pleasure ,  our noble and valiant general ,  that upon certain tidings now arrived ,  importing the mere perdition of the turkish fleet ,  every man put himself into triumph; some to dance ,  some to make bonfires ,  each man to what sport and revels his addiction leads him; for besides these beneficial news ,  it is the celebration of his nuptial .
to him ,  sir topas .
and sometime comes she with a tithe - pig’s tail tickling a parson’s nose as he lies asleep ,  then he dreams of another benefice .
troth ,  sir ,  i can yield you none without words ,  and words are grown so false ,  i am loath to prove reason with them .
be merciful ,  great duke ,  to men of mold .
your tale ,  sir ,  would cure deafness .
what make you from home?
sir boy ,  i’ll whip you from your foining fence ,  nay ,  as i am a gentleman ,  i will .
hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more.
we will have more of this tomorrow .
come ,  vial .
i am agreed ,  and would i had given him the best horse inv padua to begin his wooing that would thoroughly woo her ,  wed her ,  and bed her ,  and rid the house of her !
so you walk softly ,  and look sweetly ,  and say nothing ,  i am yours for the walk ,  and especially when i walk away .
who saw cesario ,  ho ?
do it not with poison .
your grace is too costly to wear every day .
where dost thou hide thy head ?
his passport shall be made ,  and crowns for convoy put into his purse .
ay ,  very well ,  my lord .
have you the lion’s part written ?
we doubt it nothing .
shall they hoist me up and show me to the shouting varletry of censuring rome ?
is he not honest ?
he’s gone ,  but his wife’s killed .
hark ,  hark !
forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep; and, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm, your bedded hairs, like life in excrements, start up and stand on end.
i have seen nothing .
not a soul but felt a fever of the mad and played some tricks of desperation .
this will prove a brave kingdom to me ,  where i shall have my music for nothing .
but wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens ?
lysander, if you live, good sir, awake.
go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and for this fault ,  assemble all the poor men of your sort ,  draw them to tiber banks ,  and weep your tears into the channel till the lowest stream do kiss the most exalted shores of all .
why ,  then the polack never will defend it .
yes, shylock, i will seal unto this bond.
welcome home ,  grumio .
captain jamy is a marvelous falorous gentleman ,  that is certain ,  and of great expedition and knowledge in th' aunchient wars ,  upon my particular knowledge of his directions .
master ,  young man ,  you; i pray you ,  which is the way to master jew's ?
decius ,  well urged .
farewell ,  farewell .
alas, how is't with you, that you do bend your eye on vacancy, and with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
where is my lord ?
therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love, and therefore hath the wind-swift cupid wings.
something of moment then .
it should seem then, that dobbin's tail grows backward: i am sure he had more hair of his tail, than i have of my face, when i last saw him.
that is because the traitor murderer lives.
signior leonato ,  let the friar advise you .
where is he?
one thing more rests ,  that thyself execute ,  to make one among these wooers .
and will you rent our ancient love asunder, to join with men in scorning your poor friend?
you do but dally .
most like a gentleman.
macbeth is ripe for shaking ,  and the powers above put on their instruments .
there’s the respect that makes calamity of so long life .
i have sent twenty out to seek for you .
i have a suit to you.
proof enough to misuse the prince ,  to vex claudio ,  to undo hero ,  and kill leonato .
what ,  are you busy ,  ho ?
no ,  lady .
up ,  princes ,  and ,  with spirit of honor edged more sharper than your swords ,  hie to the field: charles delabreth ,  high constable of france; you dukes of orléans ,  bourbon ,  and of berri ,  alençon ,  brabant ,  bar ,  and burgundy; jacques chatillon ,  rambures ,  vaudemont ,  beaumont ,  grandpré ,  roussi ,  and faulconbridge ,  foix ,  lestrale ,  bouciqualt ,  and charolois; high dukes ,  great princes ,  barons ,  lords ,  and knights ,  for your great seats now quit you of great shames .
what news ,  my love ?
i marry her !
what say you ?
i know not .
no, caesar shall not.
down with the montagues!
and i am brutus, marcus brutus, i; brutus, my country's friend; know me for brutus!
my honoured lord !
some good man bear him carefully from hence; i'll fetch the general's surgeon.
then i know my answer must be made .
stay ,  madam .
when you do find him, or alive or dead, he will be found like brutus, like himself.
madam ,  you have done me wrong ,  notorious wrong .
ready.
the king of naples ,  being an enemy to me inveterate ,  hearkens my brother’s suit ,  which was that he ,  in lieu o' th' premises of homage and i know not how much tribute ,  should presently extirpate me and mine out of the dukedom ,  and confer fair milan with all the honors on my brother .
spout ,  rain !
good morrow ,  both .
know thus far north.
nay, but swear't.
malcolm !
the feast is sold that is not often vouch'd ,  while ’tis a - making ,  ’tis given with welcome .
would i were satisfied !
uncle ,  this is a montague ,  our foe; a villain ,  that is hither come in spite to scorn at our solemnity this night .
fare you well.
then weigh what loss your honour may sustain if with too credent ear you list his songs, or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open to his unmast'red importunity.
thou seest the world ,  volumnius ,  how it goes .
we cannot be here and there too .
and the queen too, and that presently.
it is not friendly ,  ’tis not maidenly .
the more i hate, the more he follows me.
it is the false stew -  ard ,  that stole his master's daughter .
set him before me; let me see his face .
he loves me well ,  and i have given him reasons .
what needs more words ?
to adrian] methinks our garments are now as fresh as [to adrian] methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in afric ,  at the marriage of the king's fair daughter claribel to the king of tunis .
thou praisest the worst best.
why ,  gentle sweet ,  you shall see no such thing .
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble .
if thou dost love me, show me thy thought.
this man said ,  sir ,  that don john ,  the prince’s brother ,  was a villain .
an evil soul producing holy witness is like a villain with a smiling cheek; a goodly apple rotten at the heart; o, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
the fit is momentary; upon a thought he will again be well.
twice then the trumpets sounded ,  and there i left him tranced .
i by bargain should wear it myself .
it makes me mad .
but if it were ,  doubt not her care should be to comb your noddle with a three - legged stool and paint your face and use you like a fool .
take thou the bill ,  give me thy mete -  yard ,  and spare not me .
i'll make thee an example .
how now ,  gentleman ?
we should profane the service of the dead to sing a requiem and such rest to her as to peace - parted souls .
if thou say so ,  withdraw and prove it too .
he hath ,  my lord ,  wrung from me my slow leave by laboursome petition ,  and at last upon his will i seal'd my hard consent .
yea ,  but so i am apt to do myself wrong .
what stay had i but edward ?
he kills her in her own humor .
why so ? —ay ,  that way goes the game .
let them set on at once, for i perceive but cold demeanor in octavius' wing, and sudden push gives them the overthrow.
stephano !
but here's a parchment with the seal of caesar; i found it in his closet ,  'tis his will .
your plantain leaf is excellent for that .
i'll know his humor when he knows his time .
the other did not so .
amen .
nay ,  then ,  i'll set those to you that can speak .
they met me in the day of success ,  and i have learned by the perfectest report ,  they have more in them than mortal knowledge .
to be now a sensible man ,  by and by a fool ,  and presently a beast !
but look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading .
irreparable is the loss ,  and patience says it is past her cure .
indeed ,  he hath an excellent good name .
i had rather have my horse to my mistress .
i remember you did supplant your brother prospero .
sir ,  in argier .
so would not i.
what will hap more tonight ,  safe ’scape the king !
i must embrace thee .
true, worthy banquo!
were the world mine, demetrius being bated, the rest i'd give to be to you translated.
here comes my man .
where the devil should he learn our language ?
come ,  i'll go in with you .
tell me at whose suit .
ay, at philippi.
my lord ,  i did intend it .
young fry of treachery !
how can these things in me seem scorn to you ,  bearing the badge of faith ,  to prove them true ?
anon comes one with light to ope the tomb; and by-and-by my master drew on him; and then i ran away to call the watch.
we'll answer.
your ear is good .
pretty soul !
how is it with her ?
what do you here?
the jove of power make me most weak ,  most weak ,  your reconciler !
he hath lost his fellows ,  and strays about to find ’em i might call him a thing divine ,  for nothing natural i ever saw so noble .
how?
how many ,  as you guess ?
doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly ?
romeo ,  that spoke him fair ,  bid him bethink how nice the quarrel was ,  and urg'd withal your high displeasure .
why of thy thought ,  iago ?
thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight .
you know i say nothing to him; for he understands not me ,  nor i him: he hath neither latin ,  french ,  nor italian; and you will come into the court ,  and swear that i have a poor pennyworth in the english .
yet tell me not, for i have heard it all.
romeo can, though heaven cannot.
and so am i ,  being else by faith enforced to call young claudio to a reckoning for it .
did you and he consent in cassio's death ?
i will confess to you that i love him .
o noble judge !
leave me and do the thing i bid thee do.
who bids thee call?
good sir, whose powers are these?
yet he hath ever but slenderly known himself .
that may be must be, love, on thursday next.
more light and light ,  more dark and dark our woes !
sir john falstaff .
thou shalt not have him .
good guard until their greater pleasures first be known that are to censure them .
i pray you ,  sir ,  hold your hand .
make it a word and a blow .
ay ,  but when ?
your honor’s players ,  hearing your amendment ,  are come to play a pleasant comedy ,  for so your doctors hold it very meet ,  seeing too much sadness hath congealed your blood ,  and melancholy is the nurse of frenzy .
speak low if you speak love .
and here stands all your state: either be gone before the watch be set ,  or by the break of day disguised from hence .
look to the queen there ,  ho !
o you hard hearts ,  you cruel men of rome ,  knew you not pompey ?
such was the very armour he had on when he the ambitious norway combated .
yet leave our cousin katherine here with us .
there is something else .
how now ,  my hearts !
that you have wrong'd me doth appear in this: you have condemn'd and noted lucius pella for taking bribes here of the sardians ,  wherein my letters ,  praying on his side ,  because i knew the man ,  were slighted off .
of these we told him, and there did seem in him a kind of joy to hear of it.
why ,  so .
yet stay awhile, thou shalt not back till i have borne this corse into the market-place.
methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in afric ,  at the marriage of the king’s fair daughter claribel to the king of tunis .
that i have, lady.
to him will i .
poor soul ,  thy face is much abus'd with tears .
live thou ,  i live .
most like .
come in ,  without there !
the moon sleeps with endymion, and would not be awak'd.
had we done so at first ,  we had droven them home with clouts about their heads .
madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go .
you are unkind ,  demetrius; be not so; for you love hermia .
sir, amen.
to have no man come over me !
that’s certain—if the devil may be her judge .
cassio ,  my lord ?
crystal is muddy .
that we would do, we should do when we would; for this 'would' changes, and hath abatements and delays as many as there are tongues, are hands, are accidents; and then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh, that hurts by easing.
if there be more ,  more woeful ,  hold it in .
is signior lucentio within ,  sir ?
stay on thy peril; i alone will go .
what is she ?
in orsino’s bosom .
the mighty dukes ,  gloucester and buckingham .
o my soul's joy!
he hath refus'd it in the open court; he shall have merely justice and his bond .
my master's.
these happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows ,  being black ,  puts us in mind they hide the fair .
do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel ?
that's not so good now .
is now become a god ,  and cassius is a wretched creature and must bend his body if caesar carelessly but nod on him .
be not her maid ,  since she is envious .
if he could right himself with quarreling ,  some of us would lie low .
what ,  ho !
o ,  i am fortune's fool !
if i lose a scruple of this sport ,  let me be boiled to death with melancholy .
a gentle scroll.—fair lady, by your leave: i come by note, to give and to receive.
soft you; a word or two before you go.
he shall ,  sir ,  an't please him .
away!
if he come not, then the play is marred; it goes not forward, doth it?
the turk with a most mighty preparation makes for cyprus.
madam, your mother craves a word with you.
i forgive you the praise .
monday ,  my lord .
see ,  doth he breathe ?
my lord ,  i’ll tell you that self bill is urged which in th' eleventh year of the last king’s reign was like ,  and had indeed against us passed but that the scambling and unquiet time did push it out of farther question .
keep this man safe, give him all kindness; i had rather have such men my friends than enemies.
would not they speak ?
a quarrel ,  but nothing wherefore .
i have a journey ,  sir ,  shortly to go .
pray you ,  come in .
not so sick ,  my lord ,  as she is troubled with thick - coming fancies that keep her from her rest .
still so constant ,  lord .
not now .
well ,  wednesday is too soon .
here comes the lady.
with demetrius .
oh ,  the good gods !
i’ll fetch my sister to get her goodwill .
which is one ?
what ,  and my old venetian friend ,  salerio ?
it was mine art ,  when i arrived and heard thee ,  that made gape the pine and let thee out .
and so the lion vanished .
i kiss'd thee ere i kill'd thee.
i was the more deceived.
to every roman citizen he gives, to every several man, seventy-five drachmas.
mark ,  king of scotland ,  mark: no sooner justice had ,  with valor armed ,  compelled these skipping kerns to trust their heels ,  but the norweyan lord ,  surveying vantage ,  with furbished arms and new supplies of men ,  began a fresh assault .
in cases of defense ’tis best to weigh the enemy more mighty than he seems .
and breath'd such life with kisses in my lips that i reviv'd and was an emperor .
bless us !
shall i be married then to - morrow morning ?
let me see now ,
ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
but how wilt thou do for a father?
she is importunate ,  indeed distract .
nay, lay thee down and roar; for thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent that e'er did lift up eye.
for my part ,  i care not .
that monster ,  custom ,  who all sense doth eat of habits evil ,  is angel yet in this ,  that to the use of actions fair and good he likewise gives a frock or livery ,  that aptly is put on .
not that we love words better, as you do.
speak ,  agrippa .
kent ,  father ,  sisters !
you have trained me like a peasant ,  obscuring and hiding from me all gentlemanlike qualities .
but ,  since the affairs of men rest still incertain ,  let's reason with the worst that may befall .
no, my good lord.
a blessèd labor ,  my most sovereign lord .
stay, fellow; i can read.
he is a sick man that would speak with you .
i will say so .
what’s the wager ?
tush ,  thou art deceiv'd .
this is the very painting of your fear .
let her be round with him; and i'll be placed, so please you, in the ear of all their conference.
shall not be long but i’ll be here again .
in faith ,  my lord ,  not i .
silence awhile . —robin ,  take off this head . — titania ,  music call ,  and strike more dead than common sleep of all these five the sense .
mercutio's kinsman, noble county paris!
you take your pennyworths now!
but with much forcing of his disposition.
the madly used malvolio .  ”   did he write this ?
most rightful judge!
let me stand here till thou remember it.
i will not choose what many men desire, because i will not jump with common spirits, and rank me with the barbarous multitudes.
down, therefore, and beg mercy of the duke.
beware macduff .
wouldst thou withdraw it ?
i saw ’t i' the orchard .
you must have patience ,  madam .
i am desperate of my fortunes if they check me .
greater than both ,  by the all - hail hereafter !
no ,  thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs .
we are glad the dauphin is so pleasant with us .
neighbors and friends ,  though bride and bridegroom wants for to supply the places at the table ,  you know there wants no junkets at the feast .
i prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
dorset ,  embrace him . —hastings ,  love lord marquess .
to show an unfelt sorrow is an office which the false man does easy .
but thou wouldst not think how ill all's here about my heart.
go ,  bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns .
that's villainous and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it.
i know not ,  sir .
why, how now, hecate?
o brave monster!
this is a strange repose, to be asleep with eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving, and yet so fast asleep.
i will go seek him .
nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through the guts of a beggar .
let me be resolved .
can you inquire him out and be edified by report ?
is this true, nerissa?
will you to scone ?
can vengeance be pursu'd further than death ?
yet, by your gracious patience, i will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver of my whole course of love: what drugs, what charms, what conjuration, and what mighty magic for such proceeding i am charged withal i won his daughter.
where wilt thou lead me ?
why, how now, general!
who calls on hamlet?
and for thy life let justice be accus'd.
she doth stray about by holy crosses ,  where she kneels and prays for happy wedlock hours .
i am sorry i beat thee .
i have immortal longings in me .
not a mouse stirring .
i cannot tell ,  except they are busied about a counterfeit assurance .
the foul fiend haunts poor tom in the voice of a nightingale .
we shall obey ,  were she ten times our mother .
o, i were damn'd beneath all depth in hell, but that i did proceed upon just grounds to this extremity.
if there be any in this assembly ,  any dear friend of caesar's ,  to him i say that brutus' love to caesar was no less than his .
we will go together .
why ,  sir ,  a carpenter .
avaunt ,  thou witch ! —come ,  dromio ,  let us go .
would he would change !
whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself and you of her ,  the bloody book of law you shall yourself read in the bitter letter ,  after your own sense ,  yea ,  though our proper son stood in your action .
therefore ,  fair hermia ,  question your desires .
never come such division 'tween our souls !
my bounty is as boundless as the sea ,  my love as deep .
this is above all strangeness .
there would this monster make a man .
i fear the trust othello puts him in on some odd time of his infirmity will shake this island .
i remember the story .
hence ,  make your best of it .
god be wi' you; take mine office.
what, my lord?
will it please you to see the epilogue, or to hear a bergomask dance between two of our company?
the lady is dead upon mine and my master’s false accusation .
since this fortune falls to you, be content, and seek no new.
here’s a maze trod indeed through forthrights and meanders .
my wife !
ay, if messala will prefer me to you.
it is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest .
but ships are but boards ,  sailors but men .
shall we not ,  sir andrew ?
o lamentable day!
the odds is gone ,  and there is nothing left remarkable beneath the visiting moon .
a fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell .
his leg is but so - so—and yet ’tis well .
not shafalus to procrus was so true .
is't like that lead contains her ?
thou most lying slave ,  whom stripes may move ,  not kindness !
master young gentleman ,  i pray you ,  which is the way to master jew’s ?
here comes the man you mean .
i have lost the immortal part of myself ,  and what remains is bestial .
when all's done, you look but on a stool.
lie not a night from home .
upon the rack, bassanio?
las, what's the matter?
then, since the case so stands as now it doth, i think it best you married with the county.
i did very well note him .
swear by this bottle how thou cam'st hither.
i'll call upon you ere you go to bed and tell you what i know .
i am sick and sullen .
is this true ,  nerissa ?
came they not by you ?
i call'd my love false love; but what said he then?
well praised!
take thou that.
where is he ?
but who comes here ?
thou drunken slave ,  i sent thee for a rope and told thee to what purpose and what end .
behold!
my parts ,  my title ,  and my perfect soul shall manifest me rightly .
look in upon me then and speak with me ,  or ,  naked as i am ,  i will assault thee .
the perdition of th' athversary hath been very great ,  reasonable great .
come on ,  nerissa; i have work in hand ,  that you yet know not of; we'll see our husbands before they think of us .
is romeo slaughtered ,  and is tybalt dead ?
now ,  antony ,  our hopes are answerèd .
take to you no hard thoughts .
how's the day ?
it was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there.
captain of our fairy band, helena is here at hand, and the youth, mistook by me pleading for a lover's fee; shall we their fond pageant see?
into the air ,  and what seem'd corporal melted as breath into the wind .
it is not madness that i have utt'red .
i am sped.
i shall the effect of this good lesson keep as watchman to my heart .
ay, casca, tell us what hath chanced today, that caesar looks so sad.
well ,  what was yours ?
my friend stephano, signify, i pray you, within the house, your mistress is at hand: and bring your music forth into the air.
and yet i wish but for the thing i have .
go to .
i’ll be before thee .
you may have very fit occasion for ’t .
the potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit .
stay you, good gentlemen.
nay ,  good goose ,  bite not .
what tell’st thou me of robbing ?
thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel .
come, bring away.
i hope this reason stands for my excuse .
what ring gave you my lord ?
o ,  that thou wert not ,  poor distressèd soul !
what sayest thou ?
room !
i think it be ,  sir .
alas ,  she has no speech .
i warrant it will.
better thou hadst not been born than not t' have pleased me better .
i cannot go to ,  man; nor 'tis not very well .
which she shall purchase with still - lasting war .
farewell ,  great chief .
my people do already know my mind ,  and will acknowledge you and jessica ,  in place of lord bassanio and myself .
you will answer ,   “ the slaves are ours .  ”  so do i answer you .
i am bound to thee forever.
look you ,  if you take the matter otherwise than is meant ,  captain macmorris ,  peradventure i shall think you do not use me with that affability as ,  in discretion ,  you ought to use me ,  look you ,  being as good a man as yourself ,  both in the disciplines of war and in the derivation of my birth and in other particularities .
then i'll look up; my fault is past .
stand from the hearse ,  stand from the body .
henceforth i never will be romeo .
that i ask again, for nothing can be ill if she be well.
give me my veil .
so do i, my lord.
we shall ,  my lord ,  perform what you command us .
traverse ,  go ,  provide thy money .
here let them lie till famine and the ague eat them up .
and ,  in conclusion ,  she shall watch all night ,  and if she chance to nod i’ll rail and brawl ,  and with the clamor keep her still awake .
to feed were best at home; from thence the sauce to meat is ceremony; meeting were bare without it.
what a change is here!
what visions have i seen!
he says ,  for brutus' sake ,  he finds himself beholding to us all .
their battles are at hand; they mean to warn us at philippi here ,  answering before we do demand of them .
a fig !
to sebastian] ay, and a subtle, as he most learnedly delivered.
we first address towards you ,  who with this king hath rivaled for our daughter .
in a false quarrel there is no true valor .
go take this shape and hither come in ’t .
on thursday ,  sir ?
yet i have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds .
i’ll keep my oath patiently to bear my wroth .  ”
when duncan is asleep— whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey soundly invite him—his two chamberlains will i with wine and wassail so convince, that memory, the warder of the brain, shall be a fume and the receipt of reason a limbec only.
peace ,  you were best .
this trick may chance to scathe you ,  i know what .
ay ,  with a heart as willing as bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand .
your wives ,  your daughters ,  your matrons ,  and your maids could not fill up the cistern of my lust ,  and my desire all continent impediments would o'erbear that did oppose my will .
you must note beside ,  that we have tried the utmost of our friends ,  our legions are brim - full ,  our cause is ripe .
hastings and edward’s children ,  grey and rivers ,  holy king henry and thy fair son edward ,  vaughan ,  and all that have miscarrièd by underhand ,  corrupted ,  foul injustice ,  if that your moody ,  discontented souls do through the clouds behold this present hour ,  even for revenge mock my destruction . — this is all souls' day ,  fellow ,  is it not ?
so ,  of his gentleness ,  knowing i loved my books ,  he furnished me from mine own library with volumes that i prize above my dukedom .
doth he not mend ?
that you do love me ,  i am nothing jealous; what you would work me to ,  i have some aim .
what is the cause ,  laertes ,  that thy rebellion looks so giant - like ?
what ,  my gracious lord ?
let her send it .
tis too late to go to bed now .
for if the jew do cut but deep enough ,  i’ll pay it presently with all my heart .
to relate the manner were ,  on the quarry of these murder'd deer ,  to add the death of you .
i'll touch my point with this contagion, that, if i gall him slightly, it may be death.
nor i neither .
most high, most mighty, and most puissant caesar, metellus cimber throws before thy seat an humble heart.
if to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches, and poor men's cottages princes' palaces.
how the moon sleeps with endymion and would not be awaked .
perhaps you have learned it without book.
alack, what heinous sin is it in me, to be asham'd to be my father's child!
but let her live .
tell me not ,  friar ,  that thou hear'st of this ,  unless thou tell me how i may prevent it .
didst thou not hear their shouts ?
i wonder of their being here together.
by your patience ,  i may not suffer you to visit them .
bless thy five wits .
will money buy ’em ?
the devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
must i speak now ?
if you went in pain ,  master ,  this knave would go sore .
can such things be, and overcome us like a summer's cloud, without our special wonder?
o ,  then by day where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough to mask thy monstrous visage ?
how like a younger, or a prodigal, the scarfed bark puts from her native bay, hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind!
well; tell me now, what lady is the same to whom you swore a secret pilgrimage, that you to-day promis'd to tell me of?
what’s your will ?
heaven me such uses send ,  not to pick bad from bad ,  but by bad mend !
dear duff ,  i prithee ,  contradict thyself ,  and say it is not so .
almost at odds with morning ,  which is which .
know we this face or no ?
how goes the world ,  sir ,  now ?
what said my man when my betossed soul did not attend him as we rode?
your accent is something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling .
you mock me ,  sir .
this is old ninny's tomb.
i'll bring you to him .
why, sir, a carpenter.
i think it was to see my mother's wedding .
give me some wine, fill full.
by'r lakin ,  a parlous fear .
marry, i will; and this is wisely done.
a lioness hath whelpèd in the streets ,  and graves have yawned and yielded up their dead .
grim - visaged war hath smoothed his wrinkled front; and now ,  instead of mounting barbèd steeds to fright the souls of fearful adversaries ,  he capers nimbly in a lady’s chamber to the lascivious pleasing of a lute .
to adrian] how lush and how green !
never .
tis but a little way that i can bring you ,  for i attend here .
where's romeo's man ?
o god !
captain macmorris ,  when there is more better opportunity to be required ,  look you ,  i will be so bold as to tell you i know the disciplines of war ,  and there is an end .
o no ,  my reasons are too deep and dead— too deep and dead ,  poor infants ,  in their graves .
then ,  my queen ,  in silence sad ,  trip we after the night’s shade .
o ,  how we joy to see your wit restored !
bring me to the test ,  and i the matter will reword; which madness would gambol from .
up ,  up ,  and see the great doom’s image !
by my troth ,  my lord ,  i cannot tell what to think of it ,  but that she loves him with an enraged affection ,  it is past the infinite of thought .
he has a little galled me ,  i confess .
if it be you that stir these daughters' hearts against their father ,  fool me not so much to bear it tamely .
if we do meet again ,  why ,  we shall smile; if not ,  why then this parting was well made .
you will lose this wager ,  my lord .
do the boys carry it away ?
he did bespeak a chain for me but had it not .
how say you?
a gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
but though we think it so ,  it is no matter .
they cannot budge till your release .
i learned it in england where indeed they are most potent in potting .
for lord hamlet ,  believe so much in him ,  that he is young ,  and with a larger tether may he walk than may be given you .
the games are done and caesar is returning .
and she as much in love ,  her means much less to meet her new beloved anywhere .
not so sick ,  my lord ,  as she is troubled with thick - coming fancies ,  that keep her from her rest .
this is her very guise, and, upon my life, fast asleep.
how long is it now to lammastide?
have more than thou showest ,  speak less than thou knowest ,  lend less than thou owest ,  ride more than thou goest ,  learn more than thou trowest ,  set less than thou throwest ,  leave thy drink and thy whore and keep in - a - door ,  and thou shalt have more than two tens to a score .
pray you ,  sir ,  stand up .
it is almost morning ,  and yet ,  i am sure ,  you are not satisfied of these events at full .
now boast thee ,  death ,  in thy possession lies a lass unparalleled .
o ,  in the battle think on buckingham ,  and die in terror of thy guiltiness .
it well appears .
not black in my mind ,  though yellow in my legs .
i know into what straits of fortune she is driven ,  and it is not impossible to me ,  if it appear not inconvenient to you ,  to set her before your eyes tomorrow ,  human as she is ,  and without any danger .
of thirty sail .
what says this leaden casket ?
those that hobgoblin call you, and sweet puck, you do their work, and they shall have good luck.
then i would you were so honest a man .
confess yourself to heaven; repent what's past; avoid what is to come; and do not spread the compost on the weeds to make them ranker .
didst thou not hear their shouts ?
why do you keep alone ,  of sorriest fancies your companions making ,  using those thoughts which should indeed have died with them they think on ?
that it should come to this!
is not this something more than fantasy ?
i will follow you .
and why not the swift foot of time ?
hear me with patience .
master malvolio ?
verona’s summer hath not such a flower .
i hear it now above me .
i must fetch his necessaries ashore .
when i was with him, i have heard him swear to tubal, and to chus, his countrymen, that he would rather have antonio's flesh, than twenty times the value of the sum that he did owe him; and i know, my lord, if law, authority, and power deny not, it will go hard with poor antonio.
heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art .
if you can ,  your reason ?
brutus hath rived my heart .
a norman was't ?
i'll not be forsworn.
shall i have the thought to think on this; and shall i lack the thought that such a thing, bechanc'd, would make me sad?
and he did bid us follow to the temple .
tis even so; for let our finger ache, and it indues our other healthful members even to that sense of pain.
come now; what masques, what dances shall we have, to wear away this long age of three hours between our after-supper and bed-time?
i arrest thee of high treason ,  by the name of henry ,  lord scroop of masham .
in that and all things will we show our duty.
here love ,  thou seest how diligent i am ,  to dress thy meat myself and bring it thee .
sebastian are you ?
now ,  my titania ,  wake you ,  my sweet queen .
is he alone ?
get your apparel together; good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your pumps; meet presently at the palace; every man look o'er his part; for the short and the long is, our play is preferred.
he shift a trencher !
there lies the man ,  slain by young romeo ,  that slew thy kinsman ,  brave mercutio .
wash your hands .
i have heard where many of the best respect in rome ,  except immortal caesar ,  speaking of brutus and groaning underneath this age’s yoke ,  have wished that noble brutus had his eyes .
o ,  never shall sun that morrow see !
but it is no matter.
go to ,  then !
why ,  mistress ,  sure my master is horn mad .
what ,  will my daughter prove a good musician ?
what, is my daughter gone to friar laurence?
methoughts i saw a thousand fearful wracks ,  a thousand men that fishes gnawed upon ,  wedges of gold ,  great anchors ,  heaps of pearl ,  inestimable stones ,  unvalued jewels ,  all scattered in the bottom of the sea .
and let us swear our resolution .
he pulls trinculo out from under caliban's cloak by the legs] thou art very trinculo indeed !
there is too great testimony in your complexion that it was a passion of earnest .
let this pernicious hour stand aye accursed in the calendar !
for god's love let me hear!
or ,  failing so ,  yet that i put the moor at least into a jealousy so strong that judgment cannot cure .
this same skull, sir, was yorick's skull, the king's jester.
and you are come in very happy time to bear my greeting to the senators and tell them that i will not come today .
well ,  then i shall see thee again ?
let their beds be made as soft as yours, and let their palates be season'd with such viands?
what it is, my caius, i shall unfold to thee, as we are going to whom it must be done.
one speak for both:—what would you?
those that  “ hobgoblin ”  call you ,  and  “ sweet puck ,  ”  you do their work ,  and they shall have good luck .
you shall not seal to such a bond for me; i'll rather dwell in my necessity .
when was it she last walked?
why ,  this is excellent .
if she confess that she was half the wooer ,  destruction on my head if my bad blame light on the man . —come hither ,  gentle mistress .
look you here, here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.
for i have neither wit nor words nor worth ,  action nor utterance nor the power of speech ,  to stir men’s blood .
space enough have i in such a prison .
come, come; cut thread and thrum; quail, crush, conclude, and quell.
so again ,  good night .
and then ,  sir ,  does he this ,  he does— what was i about to say ?
grace grow where those drops fall !
it is the bright day that brings forth the adder and that craves wary walking.
the queen carouses to thy fortune ,  hamlet .
he did ,  and from my finger snatched that ring .
she was too fond of her most filthy bargain .
or else misgraffed in respect of years— o spite!
give me your hand ,  sir .
let them play it .
did i deserve no more than a fool’s head ?
i have not seen such a firago .
her name ,  that was as fresh as dian's visage ,  is now begrimed and black as mine own face .
i have a wife ,  whom i protest i love .
would i might but ever see that man!
dighton and forrest ,  whom i did suborn to do this piece of ruthless butchery ,  albeit they were fleshed villains ,  bloody dogs ,  melted with tenderness and mild compassion ,  wept like two children in their deaths' sad story .
i cry your worships' mercy ,  heartily . —i beseech your worship’s name .
i was with hercules and cadmus once ,  when in a wood of crete they bay'd the bear with hounds of sparta; never did i hear such gallant chiding ,  for ,  besides the groves ,  the skies ,  the fountains ,  every region near seem'd all one mutual cry .
the reason that i gather he is mad ,  besides this present instance of his rage ,  is a mad tale he told today at dinner of his own doors being shut against his entrance .
help ,  help !
my matter hath no voice ,  lady ,  but to your own most pregnant and vouchsafed ear .
why ,  all these should be in the lanthorn ,  for all these are in the moon . —but silence !
here's such a coil !
the time and my intents are savage-wild, more fierce and more inexorable far than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
if i live to be as old as sibylla i will die as chaste as diana ,  unless i be obtained by the manner of my father's will .
be it so !
get thee gone, but do it.
said you so ?
why of thy thought ,  iago ?
an i were so apt to quarrel as thou art ,  any man should buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter .
as a friend .
fore heaven ,  they have given me a rouse already .
passion !
everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged .
her lord is come .
if he break the peace ,  he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling .
i have done no more to caesar than you shall do to brutus .
what ,  if my house be troubled with a rat and i be pleas'd to give ten thousand ducats to have it ban'd ?
who dead ?
no ,  sir ,  i live by the church .
you see how full of changes his age is .
he does well to commend it himself; there are no tongues else for's turn .
my stomach is not constant .
no ,  his mouth is stopped .
things without all remedy should be without regard.
o heat ,  dry up my brains !
we had much more monstrous matter of feast ,  which worthily deserved noting .
a lover ,  that kills himself most gallant for love .
i would thou couldst!
their bloody sign of battle is hung out ,  and something to be done immediately .
and you by land .
madam ,  withdraw: the prince ,  the count ,  signor benedick ,  don john ,  and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to church .
therefore ,  i beseech your highness pardon me .
o ,  good sir ,  i do .
wilt thou provoke me?
that same cowardly giant - like ox - beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house .
i doubt not of your wisdom .
approach and speak .
i shifted him away ,  and laid good ‘scuse upon your ecstasy; bade him anon return and here speak with me; the which he promised .
well then, it now appears you need my help: go to then: you come to me, and you say, shylock, we would have monies; you say so; you, that did void your rheum upon my beard, and foot me, as you spurn a stranger cur over your threshold; monies is your suit.
be patient till the last .
why ,  'tis a loving and a fair reply .
come in, tailor; here you may roast your goose.
heavens shield lysander ,  if they mean a fray !
he is slain .
i needs must wake her.
why ,  that the moor first gave to desdemona; that which so often you did bid me steal .
from hamlet?
i tell you ’tis not very well .
so let high - sighted tyranny range on till each man drop by lottery .
knock at the gate ?
knock ,  i say .
then none have i offended .
what he hath lost ,  noble macbeth hath won .
come, my hippolyta; what cheer, my love?
let us be sacrificers but not butchers ,  caius .
o ,  by whom ?
do you see this, o god?
therefore be patient .
then belike my children shall have no names .
of honourable reckoning are you both ,  and pity 'tis you liv'd at odds so long .
there's comfort yet; they are assailable.
we will be married o' sunday .
your hands than mine are quicker for a fray; my legs are longer though ,  to run away .
we shall find of him a shrewd contriver .
i am glad thou canst speak no better english ,  for if thou couldst ,  thou wouldst find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think i had sold my farm to buy my crown .
tis no time to play now.
am i not stayed for ,  cinna ?
thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
sweet prince ,  why speak not you ?
she speaks ,  yet she says nothing .
peace, you mumbling fool!
urge neither charity nor shame to me .
give me thy hand ,  roderigo .
mark you this ,  bassanio ,  the devil can cite scripture for his purpose .
keep me in temper .
the better for thy friends .
lucilius and titinius, bid the commanders prepare to lodge their companies tonight.
ross: his absence ,  sir ,  lays blame upon his promise .
fare you well .
i shall grow jealous of you shortly ,  launcelot ,  if you thus get my wife into corners .
a monster ,  a very monster in apparel ,  and not like a christian footboy or a gentleman’s lackey .
doth not the gentleman deserve as full as fortunate a bed as ever beatrice shall couch upon ?
a poured a flagon of rhenish on my head once.
tremblingly she stood and on the sudden dropped .
two of both kinds make up four .
is there any ships put forth tonight ?
marry, how?
ho ,  ho ,  ho !
go ,  by this token .
then you'll buy ’em to sell again .
what ,  did caesar swoon ?
that which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
but indeed ,  sir ,  we make holiday ,  to see caesar and to rejoice in his triumph .
why are you grown so rude ?
you know not what you do.
wilt thou be fast to my hopes ,  if i depend on the issue ?
what do you mean by this haunting of me?
i'll send to one in mantua ,  where that same banish'd runagate doth live ,  shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram that he shall soon keep tybalt company; and then i hope thou wilt be satisfied .
between who?
tis wonderful .
what's the newest grief?
and when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
bear thee well in it and leave us alone .
pluck up thy spirits .
i should not urge thy duty past thy might; i know young bloods look for a time of rest .
cassio !
thou art a soldier only .
speak you so gently ?
and when i shall die ,  take him and cut him out in little stars ,  and he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night and pay no worship to the garish sun .
i find not myself disposed to sleep .
remember thee !
go you with me ,  uncle of exeter .
god send you ,  sir ,  a speedy infirmity ,  for the better increasing your folly !
o ,  sir ,  the conceit is deeper than you think for .
i gave my love a ring and made him swear never to part with it .
my hands are of your color ,  but i shame to wear a heart so white .
we should have else desired your good advice ,  which still hath been both grave and prosperous in this day's council; but we'll take tomorrow .
nor doth this wood lack worlds of company ,  for you in my respect are all the world .
you all did see that on the lupercal i thrice presented him a kingly crown ,  which he did thrice refuse .
and breath'd such life with kisses in my lips that i reviv'd and was an emperor.
i will be here again ,  even with a thought .
not he that himself is not so ,  which is mark antony .
i serve as good a man as you .
thou rascal beadle ,  hold thy bloody hand .
go and importune her.
methought i was ,  and methought i had ,  but man is but a patched fool ,  if he will offer to say what methought i had .
thou canst compel no more than she entreat; thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers helen, i love thee, by my life, i do; i swear by that which i will lose for thee to prove him false that says i love thee not.
and may ,  through all the world !
me believe it ?
let’s think ’t unsafe to come in to the cry without more help .
for from broad words ,  and ’cause he fail'd his presence at the tyrant's feast ,  i hear ,  macduff lives in disgrace .
let me see now: to get his place ,  and to plume up my will in double knavery—how ,  how ?
such as i am ,  i come from antony .
where ?
i have said.
peace ,  ho !
i know you two are rival enemies; how comes this gentle concord in the world that hatred is so far from jealousy to sleep by hate, and fear no enmity?
both of you know banquo was your enemy .
speak .
oh ,  thou art wise !
give me up the truth .
lord hamlet !
hark !
beauty's ensign yet is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks ,  and death's pale flag is not advanced there .
sometimes she driveth o'er a soldier's neck, and then dreams he of cutting foreign throats, of breaches, ambuscadoes, spanish blades, of healths five fathom deep; and then anon drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes, and being thus frighted, swears a prayer or two and sleeps again.
my liberty .
you see how easily she may be surprised .
what ,  shall one of us that struck the foremost man of all this world but for supporting robbers ,  shall we now contaminate our fingers with base bribes ,  and sell the mighty space of our large honors for so much trash as may be graspèd thus ?
why then, lead on.
thou'rt kind .
to plainness honor’s bound when majesty falls to folly .
help!
out ,  loathed medicine !
what wouldst thou write of me ,  if thou should’st praise me ?
what does he say of brutus?
to what base uses we may return ,  horatio .
give me faith ,  say i .
here ,  thou incestuous ,  murderous ,  damnèd dane ,  drink off this potion .
i trouble thee too much ,  but thou art willing .
fetch me my rapier ,  boy .
what's your will?
how goes it now ?
more to know did never meddle with my thoughts.
what ,  shall i groan and tell thee ?
this disease is beyond my practice .
put on my crown .
if not ,  assure yourself i will seek satisfaction of you .
tomorrow shall you know our mind at full .
he would be crowned .
the greater cantle of the world is lost with very ignorance .
follow !
should i lie ,  madam ?
i will have none on't .
i’ll cross it though it blast me . —stay ,  illusion !
wake when some vile thing is near.
believe me ,  i had rather have lost my purse full of crusadoes .
methoughts that i had broken from the tower and was embarked to cross to burgundy ,  and in my company my brother gloucester ,  who from my cabin tempted me to walk upon the hatches .
hark ,  hark !
we are haunted.
fie ,  fie !
ambassadors from harry king of england do crave admittance to your majesty .
who’s his lieutenant ,  hear you ?
good laertes ,  if you desire to know the certainty of your dear father's death ,  is't writ in your revenge that ,  swoopstake ,  you will draw both friend and foe ,  winner and loser ?
give me the cups .
i have words to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of the matter.
thy husband .
here's a skull, now.
who is here so vile that will not love his country ?
come ,  what says romeo ?
thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise: an you be mine, i'll give you to my friend; an you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in the streets, for, by my soul, i'll ne'er acknowledge thee, nor what is mine shall never do thee good.
for what offence ?
and hippolyta .
o nature, what hadst thou to do in hell when thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend in mortal paradise of such sweet flesh?
wouldst thou betray me ?
but though thou art adjudgèd to the death ,  and passèd sentence may not be recalled but to our honour’s great disparagement ,  yet will i favor thee in what i can .
moon and stars !
i’ll to him .
the leisure and the fearful time cuts off the ceremonious vows of love and ample interchange of sweet discourse ,  which so - long - sundered friends should dwell upon .
let not a traitor live !
i put it in the pocket of my gown .
even so?
i like the new tire within excellently ,  if the hair were a thought browner; and your gown’s a most rare fashion ,  i' faith .
and ,  england ,  if my love thou hold'st at aught— as my great power thereof may give thee sense ,  since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red after the danish sword ,  and thy free awe pays homage to us—thou mayst not coldly set our sovereign process ,  which imports at full ,  by letters congruing to that effect ,  the present death of hamlet .
the hand of little employment hath the daintier sense.
he left this ring behind him ,  would i or not .
if they do see thee they will murder thee .
heard you this ,  gonzalo ?
sir, i will walk here in the hall.
but now ,  my lord .
this damned witch sycorax ,  for mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible to enter human hearing ,  from argier ,  thou know’st ,  was banished .
what is it you will see?
hast thou forgot her ?
horatio ,  when thou shalt have overlook'd this ,  give these fellows some means to the king .
out ,  you baggage !
i shall find time ,  cassius ,  i shall find time .
i stay too long from her .
o my dear orlando ,  how it grieves me to see thee wear thy heart in a scarf .
harder ,  harder .
go ,  villain ,  fetch a surgeon .
well ,  keep me company but two years more ,  thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue .
well ,  girl ,  thou weep’st not so much for his death ,  as that the villain lives which slaughtered him .
alack, for pity!
in apprehension how like a god !
masters ,  the duke is coming from the temple ,  and there is two or three lords and ladies more married .
the phrase would be more german to the matter if we could carry a cannon by our sides.
did you and he consent in cassio's death?
why is your cheek so pale?
hold off the earth awhile ,  till i have caught her once more in mine arms .
mine eyes do itch; doth that bode weeping ?
less than an ace ,  man; for he is dead; he is nothing .
to whom in all this presence speaks your grace ?
o, horrible!
farewell .
no, caesar hath it not, but you, and i, and honest casca, we have the falling sickness.
i pray you all ,  stand up .
come for the third ,  laertes !
and what art thou that dar’st appear thus to us ?
he is welcome too.
she thanked me and bade me ,  if i had a friend that loved her ,  i should but teach him how to tell my story and that would woo her .
will he tell us what this show meant?
what ,  ho !
mark me.
swear priests and cowards and men cautelous ,  old feeble carrions and such suffering souls that welcome wrongs .
juno sings her blessings upon you .
my husband!
ay ,  by heaven ,  my lord .
if this be known ,  cassius or caesar never shall turn back ,  for i will slay myself .
o eastern star !
to the spirits] well done!
all my engagements i will construe to thee ,  all the charactery of my sad brows .
tis here .
mustardseed .
beware the ides of march .
my lord ?
stephano!
let me lick thy shoe .
the boy gives warning something doth approach .
o thou bloody prison ,  fatal and ominous to noble peers !
what means your lordship?
what’s the matter ?
i would i were thy bird .
if i speak like myself in this ,  let him be whipped that first finds it so .
who else ?
you lie .
fie, for shame!
my cousin westmoreland ?
for what, i pray thee?
art thou a man ?
romeo ! — alack ,  alack ,  what blood is this ,  which stains the stony entrance of the sepulcher ?
my pulse as yours doth temperately keep time and makes as healthful music .
but ,  on: six barbary horses against six french swords ,  their assigns ,  and three liberal - conceited carriages—that’s the french bet against the danish .
but it is no matter .
is thy master coming ?
betrayed i am .
those that are married already—all but one—shall live; the rest shall keep as they are.
i am not bid for love; they flatter me: but yet i'll go in hate, to feed upon the prodigal christian.—jessica, my girl, look to my house.—i am right loath to go; there is some ill a-brewing towards my rest, for i did dream of money-bags to-night.
you will take little delight in it ,  i can tell you ,  there is such odds in the man .
what less than doomsday is the prince’s doom ?
beware the ides of march.
most heartily i do beseech the court to give the judgment .
he was my friend ,  faithful and just to me .
what likelihood ?
who calls ?
would it were day !
although i hate her, i'll not harm her so.
pull't off, i say.
i am not sorry neither .
turn thy back and run?
her hedges ,  even - pleached ,  like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair ,  put forth disordered twigs .
o iago, the pity of it, iago!
nay ,  gentlemen ,  prepare not to be gone .
madam, what should i do?
good time of day unto my gracious lord .
nor i neither by this heavenly light; i might do't as well i' the dark.
nine or ten times i had thought t' have yerked him here under the ribs .
many a morning hath he there been seen ,  with tears augmenting the fresh morning’s dew ,  adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs .
a pox o’ your throat, you bawling, blasphemous, incharitable dog!
we follow thee . —juliet ,  the county stays .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
and therefore ,  like herself—wise ,  fair and true— shall she be placèd in my constant soul .
alas ,  good gentleman !
the next caesarion smite ,  till by degrees the memory of my womb ,  together with my brave egyptians all ,  by the discandying of this pelleted storm lie graveless till the flies and gnats of nile have buried them for prey !
my lady !
with anger ,  with sickness ,  or with hunger ,  my lord ,  not with love .
bear with me ,  good boy ,  i am much forgetful .
but howsoe'er you have been jostled from your senses ,  know for certain that i am prospero ,  and that very duke which was thrust forth of milan ,  who most strangely upon this shore ,  where you were wrecked ,  was landed to be the lord on't .
romeo, good night.
yond same black cloud ,  yond huge one ,  looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor .
and this may help to thicken other proofs that do demonstrate thinly .
i say amen, gonzalo!
round ,  even to faultiness .
let me have open means to come to them ,  and soon i’ll rid you from the fear of them .
ah, what an unkind hour is guilty of this lamentable chance!
when you sued staying ,  then was the time for words .
by heaven ,  thy madness shall be paid by weight ,  till our scale turn the beam .
would i might never o’ertake pursued success ,  but i do feel ,  by the rebound of yours ,  a grief that smites my very heart at root .
you have loved him well .
but now mine eyes ,  which i have darted at thee ,  hurt thee not .
well ,  march we on ,  to give obedience where ’tis truly owed .
help!
wherefore ?
the weight of this sad time we must obey .
if he had been forgotten, it had been as a gap in our great feast and all-thing unbecoming.
go back again ,  thou slave ,  and fetch him home .
caesar’s will ?
when beggars die there are no comets seen .
i have led you oft; carry me now ,  good friends ,  and have my thanks for all .
adieu.
tis cowardly and womanish .
why ,  the end is he hath lost a ship .
this grief is crowned with consolation .
i knew your father .
mark him .
nay ,  i am the very pink of courtesy .
i have them ready .
therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me .
hold your peace.
thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul, and there i see such black and grained spots as will not leave their tinct.
has he never before sounded you in this business ?
a good sharp fellow .
o, how ripe in show thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!
hold ,  take this letter .
she false with cassio?
now he denies it faintly ,  and laughs it out .
dolor comes to him ,  indeed .
three or four wenches where i stood cried ,   “ alas ,  good soul !  ”  and forgave him with all their hearts .
my industrious servant ,  ariel !
my fan ,  peter .
why ,  he that cuts off twenty years of life cuts off so many years of fearing death .
i will play the swan, and die in music.
take our good meaning, for our judgment sits five times in that ere once in our five wits.
we are arrant knaves ,  all .
let's have no more of this; let's to our affairs.
here's fine revolution, and we had the trick to see't.
you have put him down ,  lady ,  you have put him down .
hail !
in syracusa was i born ,  and wed unto a woman happy but for me ,  and by me ,  had not our hap been bad .
i never saw her till this time .
macbeth !
help me hence ,  ho !
is it the king ?
an interlude !
by this sword ,  he that makes the first thrust ,  i’ll kill him .
these lily lips ,  this cherry nose ,  these yellow cowslip cheeks are gone ,  are gone .
thy eyes are almost set in thy head .
a conduit ,  girl ?
i, not rememb'ring how i cried out then, will cry it o'er again: it is a hint that wrings mine eyes to't.
poor living corse ,  closed in a dead man’s tomb !
say on ,  my loving lord .
i would have stay'd till i had made you merry, if worthier friends had not prevented me.
o ,  unpleasing news !
come, thou gentle day.
o, that you bore the mind that i do!
hence ,  and stand aloof .
yea ,  or to paint himself ?
twill be naught ,  but let it be .
when and where and how we met ,  we wooed and made exchange of vow ,  i’ll tell thee as we pass ,  but this i pray: that thou consent to marry us today .
great dunsinane he strongly fortifies .
my kind antonio ,  i can no other answer make but thanks ,  and thanks ,  and ever thanks .
even so quickly may one catch the plague ?
what trumpet’s that ?
o slave !
how shall we beguile the lazy time, if not with some delight?
the queen ,  my lord ,  is dead .
we have engaged ourselves too far .
well ,  heaven’s above all ,  and there be souls must be saved ,  and there be souls must not be saved .
the dram of evil doth all the noble substance of a doubt to his own scandal .
sweet friends ,  to bed .
what from the cape can you discern at sea?
more shall they speak; for now i am bent to know ,  by the worst means ,  the worst .
let us not leave him out .
stay the friar too .
what is a man ,  if his chief good and market of his time be but to sleep and feed ?
o thou public commoner!
i never did repent for doing good, nor shall not now; for in companions that do converse and waste the time together, whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love, there must be needs a like proportion of lineaments, of manners, and of spirit; which makes me think, that this antonio, being the bosom lover of my lord, must needs be like my lord.
two such opposed kings encamp them still in man as well as herbs—grace and rude will; and where the worser is predominant ,  full soon the canker death eats up that plant .
a knave very voluble; no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane seeming, for the better com- passing of his salt and most hidden loose affection?
yea ,  is the worst well ?
i do not find that thou dealest justly with me.
is not their climate foggy ,  raw ,  and dull ,  on whom ,  as in despite ,  the sun looks pale ,  killing their fruit with frowns ?
i think he told me paris should have married juliet.
no ,  if without more words you will get you hence .
pray heavens he be ,  for i have served him ,  and the man commands like a full soldier .
i was killed i' th' capitol .
no such matter!
give me bianca for my patrimony .
and when you do them—     cassius ,  be content .
it seems he hath great care to please his wife .
i tell thee ,  constable ,  my mistress wears his own hair .
it is my lady mother .
is that my prize ?
right glad i am he was not at this fray.
why then ,  let fall your horrible pleasure .
to the health of our general !
a good lenten answer .
o heavy burden!
yes ,  you are .
anything that’s mended is but patched .
do you doubt that ?
what is here?
what did you enact ?
if she be in her chamber or your house ,  let loose on me the justice of the state for thus deluding you .
my lord ,  for aught i know .
nothing at all.
the duke’s to blame in this .
i cannot believe that in her; she's full of most blest condition.
i dare make his answer ,  none .
oh ,  they take the part of a better wrestler than myself .
i therefore apprehend and do attach thee for an abuser of the world ,  a practicer of arts inhibited and out of warrant . — lay hold upon him .
he shall do this ,  or else i do recant the pardon that i late pronouncèd here .
oh ,  ’tis a gallant king !
give him this letter .
this ,  cinna .
i think he will carry this island home in his pocket and give it his son for an apple .
he hath not told his thought to the king ?
tis from your sister .
i am very glad to see you, signior; welcome to cyprus.
ready .
it is ,  my lord .
nay ,  but hear me: pardon this fault ,  and by my soul i swear ,  i never more will break an oath with thee .
the moor himself at sea and is in full commission here for cyprus .
romeo is coming.
is it a free visitation?
farewell ,  good launcelot .
rest ,  rest ,  perturbed spirit !
get you a place .
let wantons light of heart tickle the senseless rushes with their heels .
yet must not we put the strong law on him.
this is her very guise; and ,  upon my life ,  fast asleep .
now ,  sir ,  her father counts it dangerous that she do give her sorrow so much sway ,  and in his wisdom hastes our marriage to stop the inundation of her tears ,  which ,  too much minded by herself alone ,  may be put from her by society .
too old by heaven .
where is my page ?
his hour is almost past .
what mean’st thou ,  that thou help’st me not ?
haply some poison yet doth hang on them to make me die with a restorative .
mistress ,  both man and master is possessed .
nothing ,  my lord .
those that are in extremity of either are abominable fellows and betray themselves to every modern censure worse than drunkards .
come, sir, your passado!
whereto serves mercy but to confront the visage of offence?
hamlet comes back.
with what i get ,  i mean; and so do they .
have you conspired ,  have you with these contrived ,  to bait me with this foul derision ?
what wife ?
who’s there ?
and so i thank you for your good counsel .
i have lived long enough .
but yesterday the word of caesar might have stood against the world .
dear ,  they durst not ,  so dear the love my people bore me ,  nor set a mark so bloody on the business ,  but with colors fairer painted their foul ends .
i do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not out three years old.
but what see i ?
the more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
our master and mistress seeks you .
will it be ever thus ?
nothing but death shall stay me .
up so .
sweet portia ,  if you did know to whom i gave the ring ,  if you did know for whom i gave the ring ,  and would conceive for what i gave the ring ,  and how unwillingly i left the ring when naught would be accepted but the ring ,  you would abate the strength of your displeasure .
again !
but tell me ,  is young george stanley living ?
if thou darest tempt me further ,  draw thy sword .
this speed of caesar’s carries beyond belief .
if we shadows have offended, think but this, and all is mended, that you have but slumber'd here while these visions did appear.
here comes another of the tribe .
he is as full of valor as of kindness ,  princely in both .
hail !
most gracious majesty !
god mark thee to his grace !
if she deny to wed ,  i’ll crave the day when i shall ask the banns and when be marrièd .
those that have known the earth so full of faults .
by the eighth hour .
unkindness may do much ,  and his unkindness may defeat my life ,  but never taint my love .
take you assurance of her cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum .
i think our country sinks beneath the yoke .
monsieur cobweb; good monsieur ,  get you your weapons in your hand and kill me a red - hipped humble - bee on the top of a thistle; and ,  good monsieur ,  bring me the honey - bag .
some god direct my judgment!
oh ,  that i were a man !
solemn music] [solemn music] [to alonso] a solemn air ,  and the best comforter [to alonso] a solemn to an unsettled fancy ,  cure thy brains ,  now useless ,  boiled within thy skull .
thy mantle good, what!
the galleys have sent a dozen sequent messengers this very night at one another’s heels ,  and many of the consuls ,  raised and met ,  are at the duke’s already .
this course i fittest choose ,  for forty ducats is too much to lose .
no ,  sir ,  god forbid ,  but ashamed to kiss .
oh ,  that brave caesar !
do you triumph ?
i do well believe your highness, and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen, who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing.
bring us the letter .
they would not have you to stir forth today .
let heaven and men and devils ,  let them all ,  all ,  all cry shame against me ,  yet i’ll speak .
why the wrong is but a wrong i' th' world ,  and having the world for your labor ,  ’tis a wrong in your own world ,  and you might quickly make it right .
then have at thee ,  boy !
that i ask again ,  for nothing can be ill if she be well .
here, peter quince.
how dost thou ,  sweet lord ?
for what ,  i pray thee ?
young boys and girls are level now with men .
thieves !
i had it of him .
ill luck ,  ill luck ?
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
i have heard more since .
these tedious old fools !
to gonzalo] i prithee ,  spare .
therefore be out of hope ,  of question ,  of doubt .
ay ,  the heads of the maids ,  or their maidenheads .
it is ,  my lord .
till then ,  think of the world .
think on thy sins.
nay ,  indeed if you had your eyes ,  you might fail of the knowing me .
i could find in my heart to beat him— come, kiss.
he were no lion, were not romans hinds.
tell antony ,  brutus is ta'en .
here ,  wear this jewel for me .
ill met by moonlight ,  proud titania .
thou know’st the first time that we smell the air we wawl and cry .
madam ,  i’ll take my leave .
moody?
i never saw my father in my life .
o lord ,  i could have stay'd here all the night to hear good counsel .
an you will not be answered with reason ,  i must die .
now will he sit under a medlar tree and wish his mistress were that kind of fruit as maids call medlars when they laugh alone .
that gallant spirit hath aspir’d the clouds, which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
marry ,  well remembered .
go to, charm your tongue.
proceed .
if thou didst ever thy dear father love— o god !
only give me leave ,  unworthy as i am ,  to follow you .
i do ,  mark antony .
when i had at my pleasure taunted her, and she in mild terms begg'd my patience, i then did ask of her her changeling child; which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent to bear him to my bower in fairy land.
good morrow ,  old sir thomas erpingham .
take time to pause; and by the next new moon— the sealing-day betwixt my love and me for everlasting bond of fellowship,— upon that day either prepare to die for disobedience to your father's will, or else to wed demetrius, as he would, or on diana's altar to protest for aye austerity and single life.
pray you lead on .
how dost thou and thy master agree ?
there are some shrewd contents in yon same paper ,  that steals the colour from bassanio's cheek; some dear friend dead; else nothing in the world could turn so much the constitution of any constant man .
thy royal father was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee ,  oftener upon her knees than on her feet ,  died every day she lived .
if i could add a lie unto a fault i would deny it .
this is othello's ancient, as i take it.
tis death for anyone in mantua to come to padua .
i think she will be rul'd in all respects by me; nay more ,  i doubt it not .
in what ,  my dear lord ?
and come yourselves and bring messala with you immediately to us .
yet is this no charm for the toothache . —old signior ,  walk aside with me .
most noble caesar !
you wrong'd yourself to write in such a case .
to tell thee thou shalt see me at philippi .
who, i?
none wed the second but who killed the first .
but he has promised me ,  as he is a gentleman and a soldier ,  he will not hurt you .
you jig ,  you amble ,  and you lisp; and nickname god's creatures and make your wantonness your ignorance .
now he importunes him to tell it o'er.
the spring ,  the head ,  the fountain of your blood is stopped; the very source of it is stopped .
shall i entreat a word ?
i do beseech you— chiefly that i might set it in my prayers— what is your name?
please ’t your highness to grace us with your royal company ?
calling death ‘banishment , ’ thou cut'st my head off with a golden axe and smilest upon the stroke that murders me .
did you not speak to it ?
i'll lay fourteen of my teeth— and yet ,  to my teen be it spoken ,  i have but four— she is not fourteen .
hie to high fortune !
who has put in ?
ay ,  my good lord .
drinks.
what would'st thou have with me ?
where’s the king ?
you’ll win two days upon me .
but on!
in himself he is; but in this kind, wanting your father's voice, the other must be held the worthier.
what ,  is the man lunatic ?
good night ,  good night .
i never did deny it .
besides ,  their writers say ,  king pepin ,  which deposèd childeric ,  did ,  as heir general ,  being descended of blithild ,  which was daughter to king clothair ,  make claim and title to the crown of france .
came you, from padua, from bellario?
how well my comfort is reviv'd by this !
is he not jealous?
is it his use ?
madam, although i speak it in your presence, you have a noble and a true conceit of god-like amity; which appears most strongly in bearing thus the absence of your lord.
here comes the prince and claudio hastily .
now will i question cassio of bianca ,  a huswife that by selling her desires buys herself bread and clothes .
all the perfumes of arabia will not sweeten this little hand.
come in ,  tailor .
and here my mistress .
oh ,  help !
tis a world to see ,  how tame ,  when men and women are alone ,  a meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew . — give me thy hand ,  kate .
good morrow to you .
sweet men ,  come to him .
i bring thee tidings of the prince’s doom .
marry ,  heaven forbid !
i do defy thy commination and apprehend thee for a felon here .
or if thou hast not broke from company abruptly ,  as my passion now makes me ,  thou hast not loved .
why ,  you speak truth .
not in the legions of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd in evils to top macbeth.
peace, ho!
michael ,  good night .
and i .
ah ,  buckingham ,  now do i play the touch ,  to try if thou be current gold indeed .
then the liars and swearers are fools ,  for there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them .
very like, very like.
as freely ,  son ,  as god did give her me .
i humbly thank you for’t .
if you will not murder me for my love ,  let me be your servant .
such welcome and unwelcome things at once ’tis hard to reconcile.
my countrymen—     peace ,  silence !
he is enamored on hero .
if thou be'st valiant—as they say base men being in love have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them—list me .
what, ho!
i beg for justice ,  which thou ,  prince ,  must give .
so i ,  to find a mother and a brother ,  in quest of them ,  unhappy ,  lose myself .
how poor are they that have not patience !
what man is that ?
by my count ,  i was your mother much upon these years that you are now a maid .
and have not we affections ,  desires for sport ,  and frailty ,  as men have ?
heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell .
villain ,  thou liest; for even her very words didst thou deliver to me on the mart .
i'll to my book, for yet ere supper-time must i perform much business appertaining.
nay ,  i think it is scurvy ,  and begin to find myself fopped in it .
have you a mind to sink ?
look ,  here comes helena .
i was always plain with you ,  and so now i speak my agitation of the matter: therefore ,  be of good chee; for ,  truly ,  i think you are damned .
three months from twelve ,  then let me see; the rate .
what rests?
nay ,  that he did not .
i hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it, on thursday next be married to this county.
yet i should kill thee with much cherishing .
i'th’ name of something holy sir ,  why stand you in this strange stare ?
by my holy order, i thought thy disposition better temper'd.
o ,  i have lost my reputation !
why, man, they did make love to this employment!
a third cannot be matched unless the devil himself turn jew .
if not to answer ,  you might haply think tongue - tied ambition ,  not replying ,  yielded to bear the golden yoke of sovereignty ,  which fondly you would here impose on me .
how say you by the french lord ,  monsieur le bon ?
nurse?
i never felt it till now—two thousand ducats in that ,  and other precious ,  precious jewels .
o mercy ,  god !
i say  “ thy husband ” —dost understand the word ?
heaven make thee free of it !
well ,  my dread lord—so must i call you now .
niggard of question, but of our demands most free in his reply.
no ,  i pray thee speak in sober judgment .
yes ,  as sparrows eagles ,  or the hare the lion .
good morrow ,  benedick .
varro and claudio!
no ,  faith ,  die by attorney .
shall we to th' court ?
do you find some occasion to anger cassio, either by speaking too loud, or tainting his discipline, or from what other course you please, which the time shall more favorably minister.
upon the right hand i ,  keep thou the left .
orlando ?
sailors ,  my lord ,  they say; i saw them not .
o ,  that's an honest fellow .
if i do prove her haggard ,  though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings ,  i'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind to prey at fortune .
the breaking of so great a thing should make a greater crack .
o ,  but she'll keep her word .
i will .
have you not read ,  roderigo ,  of some such thing ?
the consequence is ,  then ,  thy jealous fits have scared thy husband from the use of wits .
very like a whale .
what say you ,  hugh rebeck ?
good my lord, what is your cause of distemper?
good sir ,  to the purpose .
that thing you speak of ,  i took it for a man .
i’ll drink for you .
so do you too ,  where you perceive them thick .
was ever book containing such vile matter so fairly bound ?
and in assemblies too .
he hath done good service ,  lady ,  in these wars .
these are now the fashion ,  and so berattle the common stages—so they call them—that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose quills and dare scarce come thither .
i could not send it—here it is again— nor get a messenger to bring it thee ,  so fearful were they of infection .
can you inquire him out and be edified by report?
what cares these roarers for the name of the king?
there is a kind of merry war betwixt signor benedick and her .
for indeed ,  who would set his wit to so foolish a bird ?
love me or love me not ,  i like the cap ,  and it i will have ,  or i will have none .
his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract .
you stayed well by ’t in egypt .
do not you love me ?
you are a counterfeit cowardly knave .
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  fire burn and cauldron bubble .
wilt thou have music ?
come ,  come ,  no longer will i be a fool ,  to put the finger in the eye and weep whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn .
how does my wife ?
this is the door.
what wicked and dissembling glass of mine made me compare with hermia’s sphery eyne ?
philomel with melody, &amp;c. hence away; now all is well.
let witchcraft join with beauty ,  lust with both .
i have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
thy husband knew it all .
the fee simple ?
thou sure and firm-set earth, hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear thy very stones prate of my whereabout, and take the present horror from the time, which now suits with it.
i have within my mind a thousand raw tricks of these bragging jacks which i will practice .
make haste, make haste.
what can it not?
here ,  madam ,  at your service .
juliet !
fear’st thou that ,  antonio ?
you know not how to choose a man .
what say you ?
bliss be upon you !
go to; say no more.
how am i beset ! — what kind of catechizing call you this ?
thrice within this hour i saw him down ,  thrice up again and fighting .
o ,  let me kiss that hand !
meantime we thank you for your well - took labour .
no ,  he’s a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son ,  for he’s a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman before him .
if i do so, it will be of more price, being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
ay .
where be these bloody thieves ?
the duke himself ,  or any of my brothers of the state ,  cannot but feel this wrong as ’twere their own .
what, man!
would all were well—but that will never be .
is this true?
i will have my bond .
then will i lay the serving creature’s dagger on your pate .
am i not i' the right, old jephthah?
alack ,  what noise is this ?
this is the matter—nurse, give leave awhile, we must talk in secret.
marry ,  well said ,  very well said .
sweetheart !
the sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears ,  thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears .
i grant him bloody ,  luxurious ,  avaricious ,  false ,  deceitful ,  sudden ,  malicious ,  smacking of every sin that has a name .
signior montano ,  your trusty and most valiant servitor ,  with his free duty recommends you thus ,  and prays you to believe him .
in the meantime i will draw a bill of properties, such as our play wants.
o calm ,  dishonourable ,  vile submission !
and ,  most dear actors ,  eat no onions nor garlic ,  for we are to utter sweet breath; and i do not doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy .
for juliet’s sake ,  for her sake ,  rise and stand .
think so ,  iago ?
even she: leonato’s hero ,  your hero ,  every man’s hero .
to what effect ?
i had thought to have let in some of all professions ,  that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire .
if thou say so ,  villain ,  thou kill’st thy mistress .
by my count, i was your mother much upon these years that you are now a maid.
she’s not fourteen .
no ,  faith ,  not a jot .
who is thy lord?
like one of two contending in a prize that thinks he hath done well in people’s eyes ,  hearing applause and universal shout ,  giddy in spirit ,  still gazing in a doubt whether these pearls of praise be his or no— so ,  thrice fair lady ,  stand i even so ,  as doubtful whether what i see be true until confirmed ,  signed ,  ratified by you .
it is the poison'd cup; it is too late .
that i’ll try .
a very forward march - chick !
write down prince john a villain .
tis now near night .
that's not amiss; but yet keep time in all .
the people love me ,  and the sea is mine .
it curvets unseasonably .
what ?
all my pretty ones?
thy father !
no more!
and thus she moans ,  videlicet:— asleep ,  my love ?
six or seven thousand is their utmost power .
true ,  my lord .
time is come round ,  and where i did begin ,  there shall i end .
but in the beaten way of friend -  ship ,  what make you at elsinore ?
this villain of mine comes under the prediction—there’s son against father .
then music with her silver sound with speedy help doth lend redress.’ what a pestilent knave is this same!
i say a husband .
ay, that they do, my lord, hercules and his load too.
god speed fair helena !
how came he mad ?
alas, poor caitiff!
i think thou dost .
now much beshrew my manners and my pride ,  if hermia meant to say lysander lied !
if a man were porter of hell-gate, he should have old turning the key.
of them i have much to tell thee.
alas ,  she hath from france too long been chased ,  and all her husbandry doth lie on heaps ,  corrupting in its own fertility .
very vilely in the morning ,  when he is sober; and most vilely in the afternoon ,  when he is drunk: when he is best ,  he is a little worse than a man; and when he is worst ,  he is little better than a beast: and the worst fall that ever fell ,  i hope i shall make shift to go without him .
prates too . —what say you ,  james soundpost ?
nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being dared.
once more ,  cesario ,  get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty .
i think that thou art just and think thou art not .
you sunburnt sicklemen of august weary ,  come hither from the furrow and be merry .
were you by when it began ?
give me my sword.
the terms of our estate may not endure hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow out of his lunacies .
nay then, let the devil wear black, for i'll have a suit of sables.
what revels are in hand?
soft!
the labor we delight in physics pain.
so will ye ,  i am sure ,  that you love me .
murder most foul, as in the best it is; but this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
and what hope is that ,  i pray thee ?
and i beseech you, wrest once the law to your authority: to do a great right, do a little wrong; and curb this cruel devil of his will.
a contract of true love to celebrate; and some donation freely to estate on the blest lovers .
ha, banishment?
despise me, if i do not.
yet edmund was beloved .
do not weep ,  do not weep .
she is not worth thee ,  then .
is thy master stirring ?
these things seem small and undistinguishable, like far-off mountains turned into clouds.
say  “ a day ”  without the  “ ever .  ”  no ,  no ,  orlando ,  men are april when they woo ,  december when they wed .  maids are may when they are maids ,  but the sky changes when they are wives .
they that have done this deed are honorable.
what ,  shall one of us ,  that struck the foremost man of all this world but for supporting robbers ,  shall we now contaminate our fingers with base bribes and sell the mighty space of our large honors for so much trash as may be grasped thus ?
thou did promise to bate me a full year .
now go thy way .
i know by that same eye there’s some good news .
but thou with mildness entertain’st thy wooers ,  with gentle conference ,  soft and affable .
there is a river in macedon ,  and there is also ,  moreover ,  a river at monmouth .
uncomfortable time ,  why cam'st thou now to murder ,  murder our solemnity ?
we should have else desired your good advice, which still hath been both grave and prosperous in this day's council; but we'll take tomorrow.
o noble fool !
no, no!
villainy, villainy, villainy!
come ,  come ,  let us thither .
true .
o cassio, whence came this?
who is there?
is it fit ,  the threefold world divided ,  he should stand one of the three to share it ?
i have almost slipped the hour .
thou liest .
godden to your worship ,  good captain james .
the murmuring surge that on th' unnumbered idle pebbles chafes cannot be heard so high .
such an exploit have i in hand ,  ligarius ,  had you a healthful ear to hear of it .
art thou not ,  fatal vision ,  sensible to feeling as to sight ?
no, by mine honour, madam, by my soul, no woman had it, but a civil doctor, which did refuse three thousand ducats of me and begg'd the ring; the which i did deny him, and suffer'd him to go displeas'd away; even he that had uphold the very life of my dear friend.
god made him ,  and therefore let him pass for a man .
nor did you nothing hear?
why ,  bride !
the king and queen and all are coming down.
it was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there .
i know my hour is come.
what wood is this before us ?
but in this kind ,  wanting your father’s voice ,  the other must be held the worthier .
why ,  your lieutenant ,  cassio .
thou shalt not live ,  that i may tell pale - hearted fear it lies ,  and sleep in spite of thunder .
why seek’st thou me ?
how dost thou ,  guildenstern ?
i am to blame to be thus waited for .
i and my sword will earn our chronicle .
the general and his wife are talking of it, and she speaks for you stoutly.
for nature ,  crescent ,  does not grow alone in thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes ,  the inward service of the mind and soul grows wide withal .
something from venice, sure.
how if ,  when i am laid into the tomb ,  i wake before the time that romeo come to redeem me ?
one that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
leave me, iago.
you must say ‘paragon . ’ a paramour is—god bless us ! —a thing of naught .
what you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
our separated fortune shall keep us both the safer .
ring the alarum bell .
i know you are no truant .
i have been to seek you .
tomorrow morning come you to my house ,  and since you could not be my son - in - law ,  be yet my nephew .
i often came where i did hear of her ,  but cannot find her .
and i am such a tender ass ,  if my hair do but tickle me ,  i must scratch .
i am ready now .
this is the very coinage of your brain.
something of moment then.
out, strumpet!
nay ,  gentle romeo ,  we must have you dance .
go; i'll to dinner; hie you to the cell.
at mine unworthiness that dare not offer what i desire to give, and much less take what i shall die to want.
our will is antony be took alive .
doth my simple feature content you ?
not i but my affairs have made you wait .
i found it in my chamber; and he himself confess'd but even now that there he dropp'd it for a special purpose which wrought to his desire .
why should the poor be flattered ?
would i had two coxcombs and two daughters .
if you saw yourself with your eyes or knew yourself with your judgment ,  the fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal enterprise .
your gambols?
thy crown does sear mine eyeballs .
good majesty ,  herod of jewry dare not look upon you but when you are well pleased .
to thine own peace .
truly ,  shepherd ,  in respect of itself ,  it is a good life; but in respect that it is a shepherd’s life ,  it is naught .
thou hast taken against me a most just exception; but yet, i protest, have dealt most directly in thy affair.
what further woe conspires against mine age ?
will you hoist sail ,  sir ?
o fortune ,  fortune !
now let it work .
had he his hurts before ?
nay ,  but ophelia— pray you ,  mark .
purpose is but the slave to memory ,  of violent birth ,  but poor validity; which now ,  like fruit unripe ,  sticks on the tree ,  but fall unshaken when they mellow be .
even those you were wont to take delight in ,  the tragedians of the city .
thus credulous fools are caught: and many worthy and chaste dames even thus, all guiltless, meet reproach.
pink for flower .
this was the noblest roman of them all .
live roderigo, he calls me to a restitution large of gold and jewels that i bobb'd from him, as gifts to desdemona; it must not be.
her body sleeps in capels’ monument, and her immortal part with angels lives.
here’s decius brutus .
now here's another discontented paper, found in his pocket too; and this, it seems, roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain; but that, belike, iago in the interim came in and satisfied him.
he wish'd today our enterprise might thrive .
do not you chide; i have a thing for you .
while that the armèd hand doth fight abroad ,  th' advisèd head defends itself at home .
out alas !
if i last in this service ,  you must case me in leather .
o ,  treachery !
monsieur the challenger ,  the princess calls for you .
tis said ,  man ,  and farewell .
is't frailty that thus errs ?
come, bird, come.
there’s meaning in thy snores .
ay, honest.
o heart ,  lose not thy nature; let not ever the soul of nero enter this firm bosom .
i see thee yet, in form as palpable as this which now i draw.
plots have i laid ,  inductions dangerous ,  by drunken prophecies ,  libels and dreams ,  to set my brother clarence and the king in deadly hate ,  the one against the other; and if king edward be as true and just as i am subtle ,  false ,  and treacherous ,  this day should clarence closely be mewed up about a prophecy which says that  “ g ”  of edward’s heirs the murderer shall be .
the sin of my ingratitude even now was heavy on me.
the harlot's cheek ,  beautied with plastering art ,  is not more ugly to the thing that helps it than is my deed to my most painted word .
oh ,  fie ,  fie ,  fie !
come on ,  then .
lysander, keep thy hermia; i will none.
ay me !
immoderately she weeps for tybalt's death, and therefore have i little talk'd of love; for venus smiles not in a house of tears.
then we'll shift our ground.
come on; we'll visit caliban my slave ,  who never yields us kind answer .
be this the whetstone of your sword .
i am for you .
how shall we try it ?
here comes newer comfort .
there’s not a nobler man in rome than antony .
hear me ,  good madam .
that chain will i bestow— be it for nothing but to spite my wife— upon mine hostess there .
god will revenge it .
but here’s a parchment with the seal of caesar .
who can impress the forest ,  bid the tree unfix his earthbound root ?
do not believe it.
shall i strike at it with my partisan ?
if he steal aught the whilst this play is playing ,  and 'scape detecting ,  i will pay the theft .
ah ,  desdemona ,  away ,  away ,  away !
heavens shield lysander if they mean a fray !
i hoped thou shouldst have been my hamlet's wife; i thought thy bride - bed to have deck'd ,  sweet maid ,  and not have strew'd thy grave .
o nature ,  what hadst thou to do in hell when thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend in mortal paradise of such sweet flesh ?
o !
why ,  my young cousin ?
farewell .
there’s other business for thee .
sir ,  this should be answered .
the prince will doom thee death if thou art taken .
i do i know not what and fear to find mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind .
not a word of me.
o ,  that a man might know the end of this day's business ere it come !
no epilogue ,  i pray you; for your play needs no excuse .
a great perturbation in nature, to receive at once the benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching!
no, no, he is dead; go to thy deathbed; he never will come again.
fabian can scarce hold him yonder .
near birnam wood shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
i would be loath to have you overflown with a honey bag ,  signor .
ay ,  that he was .
the chariest maid is prodigal enough if she unmask her beauty to the moon.
and yet i do thee wrong to mind thee of it ,  for thou art framed of the firm truth of valor .
ay ,  leeks is good .
we found him in the churchyard.
what’s here ?
but i know to be up late is to be up late .
authority .
so, so, so, so.
doth not  ay ,  nurse ,  what of that ?
and there were drawn upon a heap a hundred ghastly women ,  transformèd with their fear ,  who swore they saw men all in fire walk up and down the streets .
it is very meet, the lord bassanio live an upright life; for, having such a blessing in his lady, he finds the joys of heaven here on earth; and, if on earth he do not mean it, then in reason he should never come to heaven.
the best?
my father compounded with my mother under the dragon’s tail and my nativity was under ursa major ,  so that it follows i am rough and lecherous .
i’ll tell you who time ambles withal ,  who time trots withal ,  who time gallops withal ,  and who he stands still withal .
well ,  let's away and say how much is done .
that ,  methinks ,  is strange .
come ,  thou mortal wretch ,  with thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate of life at once untie .
the moor hath kill'd my mistress!
yet i'll not shed her blood ,  nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow and smooth as monumental alabaster .
when you durst do it, then you were a man; and, to be more than what you were, you would be so much more the man.
come ,  no matter vor your foins .
are they all ready ?
she hath directed how i shall take her from her father's house; what gold and jewels she is furnish'd with; what page's suit she hath in readiness .
what mistress ,  slave ,  hast thou ?
did these bones cost no more the breeding, but to play at loggets with 'em?
this nothing's more than matter.
my lord!
o ,  my fair cousin ,  i must not say so .
high'st queen of state ,  great juno ,  comes; i know her by her gait .
speak, speak!
romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man.
is she not proud ?
a second daniel ,  a daniel ,  jew !
what music ?
dost know this water - fly ?
then will i come to my mother by and by.
that must we also .
the earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she; she is the hopeful lady of my earth.
if you bethink yourself of any crime unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace, solicit for it straight.
ring the alarum bell!
by jupiter ,  i swear  “ no .  ”  by juno ,  i swear  “ ay .  ”     they durst not do ’t .
an if i could ,  what should i get therefore ?
what can it not ?
o hell-kite!
who comes here ?
how well my comfort is reviv'd by this!
because ,  look you ,  you do not love it ,  nor your affections and your appetites and your digestions does not agree with it ,  i would desire you to eat it .
we do not come as minding to contest you ,  our true intent is .
no better .
with meditating that she must die once ,  i have the patience to endure it now .
the same ,  my lord ,  and your poor servant ever .
give me ,  give me !
it is my duty ,  sir .
where’s your father ?
nay ,  but hear me .
fair love, you faint with wandering in the wood; and, to speak troth, i have forgot our way; we'll rest us, hermia, if you think it good, and tarry for the comfort of the day.
griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast ,  which thou wilt propagate ,  to have it prest with more of thine .
oh ,  then belike she was old and gentle ,  and you rode ,  like a kern of ireland ,  your french hose off and in your straight strossers .
well be with you, gentlemen!
but ,  in the verity of extolment ,  i take him to be a soul of great article ,  and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as ,  to make true diction of him ,  his semblable is his mirror ,  and who else would trace him ,  his umbrage ,  nothing more .
such love must needs be treason in my breast .
stop it ,  marcellus .
let it be who it is .
o rude unthankfulness!
if you shall cleave to my consent, when ’tis, it shall make honor for you.
there’s fire ready .
god keep me from false friends ,  but they were none .
she will taste as like this as a crab does to a crab .
hero that is dead !
here it is .
by god's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit.
when i wore it at your daughter’s marriage ?
so shines a good deed in a naughty world .
slid ,  i’ll after him again and beat him .
tarry ,  petruchio ,  i must go with thee ,  for in baptista’s keep my treasure is .
desire him to go in .
he’s a coward and a coistrel that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn o' th' toe like a parish top .
hence ,  avaunt !
list'ning their fear i could not say  “ amen ,  ”  when they did say  “ god bless us !  ”  consider it not so deeply .
therefore ,  go these griefs and losses have so 'bated me ,  that i shall hardly spare a pound of flesh to - morrow ,  to my bloody creditor .
it will be rain tonight.
yes ,  other men have ill luck too .
which is the merchant here, and which the jew?
but that a joy past joy calls out on me, it were a grief so brief to part with thee.
one ,  gentlewoman ,  that god hath made ,  himself to mar .
oh ,  misery !
then i well perceive you are not nigh .
nay ,  when i have a suit wherein i mean to touch your love indeed it shall be full of poise and difficult weight and fearful to be granted .
o ,  touch me not !
although i joy in thee ,  i have no joy of this contract tonight .
is all our company here ?
i am woe for't, sir.
make assay .
no ,  i went round to work ,  and my young mistress thus i did bespeak:  “ lord hamlet is a prince out of thy star .
by my troth ,  i would not undertake her in this company .
knock knock anon, anon!
come, friends.
i have seen you both .
dissemble not your hatred .
you told us of some suit.
if i gave them all my living ,  i’d keep my coxcombs myself .
there is a lord will hear you play tonight; but i am doubtful of your modesties ,  lest over - eyeing of his odd behavior— for yet his honor never heard a play— you break into some merry passion and so offend him .
when 'twas a little prating thing—o ,  there is a nobleman in town ,  one paris ,  that would fain lay knife aboard; but she ,  good soul ,  had as lieve see a toad ,  a very toad ,  as see him .
did we ,  my lord ?
i doubt it not ,  sir ,  but you will curse your wooing . — neighbor ,  this is a gift very grateful ,  i am sure of it .
tis much he dares ,  and to that dauntless temper of his mind he hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor to act in safety .
why, well.
i go to take my stand to see him pass on to the capitol .
therefore pardon me ,  and not impute this yielding to light love ,  which the dark night hath so discovered .
security gives way to conspiracy .
that ,  being mad herself ,  she’s madly mated .
i'll not believe't.
now, god help thee, poor monkey!
but now in the division of the kingdom ,  it appears not which of the dukes he values most ,  for equalities are so weighed that curiosity in neither can make choice of either’s moiety .
she will not stay the siege of loving terms, nor bide th’ encounter of assailing eyes, nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold.
none does offend—none ,  i say ,  none .
is not that he ?
o ,  pardon me; ‘twill do me good to walk .
we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your head and show the world what the bird hath done to her own nest .
no ,  my good lord .
help!
o, i could play the woman with mine eyes, and braggart with my tongue!
he grew unto his seat, and to such wondrous doing brought his horse as had he been incorpsed and demi-natured with the brave beast.
commend me to thy lady .
twere damnation to think so base a thought: it were too gross to rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.
sir, can you tell where he bestows himself?
death is the fairest cover for her shame that may be wished for .
madam, i'll take my leave.
let your epilogue alone .
a daniel come to judgment !
this rudeness is a sauce to his good wit ,  which gives men stomach to digest his words with better appetite .
kiss him for that ,  good widow .
no ,  not till a hot january .
in terms of choice i am not solely led by nice direction of a maiden's eyes: besides ,  the lottery of my destiny bars me the right of voluntary choosing: but ,  if my father had not scanted me ,  and hedg'd me by his wit ,  to yield myself his wife ,  who wins me by that means i told you ,  yourself ,  renowned prince ,  then stood as fair as any comer i have look'd on yet ,  for my affection .
stand to't .
for when thou gavest them the rod ,  and put’st down thine own breeches ,             prithee ,  nuncle ,  keep a schoolmaster that can teach thy fool to lie .
ay ,  sir .
the object poisons sight; let it be hid .
tis well.
on what compulsion must i ?
the iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve .
nay ,  get thee gone .
the noble brutus hath told you caesar was ambitious .
my lord !
send thy man away .
jove shield thee well for this!
why ,  then ,  let them alone till they are sober .
i loved you ever .
a surgeon !
i’ll wait upon your lordship .
i will not fail you.
come, sirs.
i have none .
it must be se offendendo; it cannot be else .
crystal is muddy .
here is a friar that trembles ,  sighs and weeps .
it is an honour that i dream not of.
will you go on ?
o, most wicked speed, to post with such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
seek it out .
oh ,  my soul’s joy !
yet let me weep for such a feeling loss .
now ,  by heaven ,  my blood begins my safer guides to rule ,  and passion ,  having my best judgement collied ,  assays to lead the way .
the time to come .
what fool is this ?
cassius ,  be constant .
ready ,  my lord .
demand me nothing .
my hearty friends ,  you take me in too dolorous a sense ,  for i spake to you for your comfort ,  did desire you to burn this night with torches .
should i not say, hath a dog money?
pray thee ,  corporal ,  stay .
faith ,  i can tell her age unto an hour .
let it work; for 'tis the sport to have the enginer hoist with his own petar; and ' shall go hard but i will delve one yard below their mines and blow them at the moon.
how !
the sun was not so true unto the day as he to me .
one of these three contains her heavenly picture .
so think thou wilt no second husband wed; but die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
if thou be merciful ,  open the tomb ,  lay me with juliet .
i am not a slut ,  though i thank the gods i am foul .
an honest mind and plain ,  he must speak truth .
nay ,  i can gleek upon occasion .
pray you ,  tell me this; if he should break his day ,  what should i gain by the exaction of the forfeiture ?
i must needs wake you .
company is coming here .
to whom, my lord?
hard - handed men that work in athens here ,  which never labour'd in their minds till now; and now have toil'd their unbreathed memories with this same play against your nuptial .
my lord?
alack, what noise is this?
i’ll have my bond ,  and therefore speak no more .
where’s romeo ?
come, what says romeo?
our son shall win .
give me thy hand, roderigo.
yield up ,  o love ,  thy crown and hearted throne to tyrannous hate !
alas, thrice gentle cassio!
never at quiet!
my lady's dead!
tis the curse of service, preferment goes by letter and affection, and not by old gradation, where each second stood heir to the first.
how if i answer no?
but how is it that this lives in thy mind ?
the best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst are no worse, if imagination amend them.
he hath refus'd it in the open court; he shall have merely justice and his bond.
to cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there .
katherine the curst !  ”  a title for a maid of all titles the worst .
lo ,  here’s the chain .
and yesterday the bird of night did sit even at noon-day upon the market-place, howling and shrieking.
the wiser ,  the waywarder .
he shall kill two of us ,  and men indeed ,  but that’s no matter .
see ,  who comes here ?
anon ,  as patient as the female dove when that her golden couplets are disclosed ,  his silence will sit drooping .
i thank your lordship ,  it is very hot .
do so .
winter garments must be lined ,  so must slender rosalind .
he knows not what he says ,  and vain it is that we present us to him .
speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
do ,  young sir .
scorn and derision never come in tears .
question it ,  horatio .
good portia ,  go to bed .
o murderous coxcomb !
the herb i showed thee once .
tis gone ,  and will not answer .
speak ,  nephew .
now is it time to arm .
he comes to kill my heart .
alas the day!
in both my eyes he doubly sees himself— in each eye ,  one .
come ,  hang them on this line .
good morrow ,  both .
i will hear further reason for this .
dead .
now ,  princely buckingham ,  seal thou this league with thy embracements to my wife’s allies and make me happy in your unity .
so ,  fare you well .
hark !
it will be short; the interim is mine, and a man's life's is no more than to say 'one.
do you not know i am a woman ?
no ,  by no means .
i have't.
my soul is heavy ,  and i fain would sleep .
the itch of his affection should not then have nicked his captainship at such a point when half to half the world opposed ,  he being the merèd question .
tush ,  tush ,  'twill not appear .
was not that nobly done ?
i have done no harm.
we must speak by the card, or equivocation will undo us.
well ,  come again tomorrow .
o dear father ,  it is thy business that i go about .
a sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap ,  and mounch'd ,  and mounch'd ,  and mounch'd .
is ’t not your trick ?
sirrah ,  fetch drier logs .
who calls ?
therefore i took your hands ,  but was indeed sway'd from the point by looking down on caesar .
so young and so untender ?
do you find your patience so predominant in your nature ,  that you can let this go ?
of her society be not afraid .
feel you your legs ?
and i in all unwillingness will go .
but this is from my commission .
others there are ,  who ,  trimm'd in forms and visages of duty ,  keep yet their hearts attending on themselves ,  and throwing but shows of service on their lords do well thrive by them; and when they have lined their coats do themselves homage .
a great suspicion !
he’s a good fellow ,  i can tell you that .
why ,  get you gone !
look, how he makes to caesar.
the love that follows us sometime is our trouble ,  which still we thank as love .
thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture to be so taken at thy peril ,  jew .
you shall be more beloving than beloved .
here comes other reck'nings .
and i remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her ,  from whom i took two cods and ,  giving her them again ,  said with weeping tears ,   “ wear these for my sake .  ”  we that are true lovers run into strange capers .
how chance moonshine is gone before thisbe comes back and finds her lover?
good even to my ghostly confessor.
you will compel me then to read the will?
i would your grace would constrain me to tell .
how canst thou make me satisfaction ?
i cannot find it; 'tis not in the bond.
deny me this ,  and an eternal curse fall on you !
i'll show thee every fertile inch o'th’ island; and i will kiss thy foot.
cassio shall have my place .
most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
no ,  my lord .
was it not yesterday we spoke together ?
belike they had some notice of the people how i had moved them .
i will ,  my lord .
call my guard ,  i prithee .
three civil brawls, bred of an airy word by thee, old capulet, and montague, have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets and made verona's ancient citizens cast by their grave beseeming ornaments to wield old partisans, in hands as old, canker’d with peace, to part your canker'd hate.
for god’s love ,  let me hear .
he's loved of the distracted multitude ,  who like not in their judgment ,  but their eyes; and where 'tis so ,  the offender's scourge is weigh'd ,  but never the offence .
tears seven times salt ,  burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye !
before the days of change ,  still is it so .
none at all .
friends am i with you all and love you all upon this hope: that you shall give me reasons why and wherein caesar was dangerous .
know you not he has ?
a conduit, girl?
thou art the thing itself .
i have charged thee not to haunt about my doors .
as they pass by ,  pluck casca by the sleeve ,  and he will ,  after his sour fashion ,  tell you what hath proceeded worthy note today .
good morrow, both.
beshrew me ,  but i love her heartily: for she is wise ,  if i can judge of her; and fair she is ,  if that mine eyes be true; and true she is ,  as she hath prov'd herself; and therefore ,  like herself ,  wise ,  fair ,  and true ,  shall she be placed in my constant soul .
good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up to such a sudden flood of mutiny.
fare thee well ,  nymph .
then let thy love be younger than thyself ,  or thy affection cannot hold the bent .
who else should be ?
and is it not ,  then ,  well serv'd in to a sweet goose ?
many a man would take you at your word and go indeed ,  having so good a mean .
it must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate temperance.
rather on nilus’ mud lay me stark naked and let the waterflies blow me into abhorring .
why should i play the roman fool and die on mine own sword?
farewell content!
i say amen to her .
god bless your grace !
lucius ,  who's that knocks ?
now i will believe that there are unicorns, that in arabia there is one tree, the phoenix’ throne, one phoenix at this hour reigning there.
a double blessing is a double grace; occasion smiles upon a second leave .
you'd be king o's the isle ,  sirrah ?
the oats have eaten the horses .
what manner of man ?
alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems upon so soft a subject as myself!
for women are as roses ,  whose fair flower being once displayed ,  doth fall that very hour .
it is indifferent cold ,  my lord ,  indeed .
petruchio is my name ,  antonio’s son ,  a man well known throughout all italy .
he's married .
that love i begged for you he begged of me .
hem them away .
oh ,  that a lady of one man refused should of another therefore be abused !
what horrible fancy's this?
what say'st thou?
why did you so cry out ,  sirs ,  in your sleep ?
there’s rosemary ,  that’s for remembrance .
worthy gentleman !
may be the letter moved him; for ,  as i think ,  they do command him home ,  deputing cassio in his government .
but i ,  who never knew how to entreat ,  nor never needed that i should entreat ,  am starved for meat ,  giddy for lack of sleep ,  with oaths kept waking and with brawling fed .
if thou ask me why ,  sufficeth my reasons are both good and weighty .
so foul and fair a day i have not seen .
now you talk of a sheet of paper ,  i remember a pretty jest your daughter told .
to me it is a prison.
i ,  by attorney ,  bless thee from thy mother ,  who prays continually for richmond’s good .
beware the ides of march .
you were best to tell antonio what you hear— yet do not suddenly ,  for it may grieve him .
but look ,  the morn ,  in russet mantle clad ,  walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill .
love ?
behold ,  there stand the caskets ,  noble prince .
that is done ,  sir .
romeo!
marry ,  that ,  i think ,  be young petruchio .
had you not been their father ,  these white flakes did challenge pity of them .
but to be frank, and give it thee again.
belike for want of rain ,  which i could well beteem them from the tempest of my eyes .
but such officers do the king best service in the end .
a friend .
how dost thou ?
what is the reason of this terrible summons ?
here in the tent .
we have been praying for our husbands' welfare ,  which speed ,  we hope ,  the better for our words .
but i must tell thee plainly ,  claudio undergoes my challenge ,  and either i must shortly hear from him ,  or i will subscribe him a coward .
look like th' innocent flower ,  but be the serpent under ’t .
nay, if you strive— but half an hour!
wilt thou not answer ,  man ?
why ,  e'en so !
it would be spoke to .
i’ll not trust your word .
welcome, wanderer.
what hath quenched them hath given me fire .
an please your worship ,  brakenbury ,  you may partake of anything we say .
but for a fine ,  quaint ,  graceful ,  and excellent fashion ,  yours is worth ten on ’t .
retire thee; go where thou art billeted: away, i say.
as woman's love .
they stay upon your patience .
but didst thou hear without wondering how thy name should be hanged and carved upon these trees ?
noble sebastian, thou let'st thy fortune sleep—die rather; wink'st whiles thou art waking.
high'st queen of state, great juno, comes; i know her by her gait.
lorenzo and his infidel ?
i will omit no opportunity that may convey my greetings ,  love ,  to thee .
we shall be much unfurnish'd for this time .
why ,  i am sorry for thee ,  gentle silvius .
and is not the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man ?
who bare my letter ,  then ,  to romeo ?
lend me your hand .
i’ll drain him dry as hay .
what, not a word?
it shall be called  “ bottom’s dream ”  because it hath no bottom .
this shall end without the perdition of souls .
death makes no conquest of this conqueror ,  for now he lives in fame ,  though not in life .
thus it is, general.
good heaven ,  the souls of all my tribe defend from jealousy !
my bounty is as boundless as the sea ,  my love as deep; the more i give to thee ,  the more i have ,  for both are infinite .
what ,  art mad ?
hang him ,  jack !
i will be heard .
use me well .
he hath a person and a smooth dispose to be suspected; framed to make women false.
my lord, i have.
hath he provided this music ?
weary se'nnights nine times nine shall he dwindle ,  peak ,  and pine; though his bark cannot be lost ,  yet it shall be tempest - tost .
alas ,  what ignorant sin have i committed ?
content with hermia !
amen!
for brutus ,  as you know ,  was caesar’s angel .
my lord ,  i warrant you we will play our part as he shall think by our true diligence he is no less than what we say he is .
for who is living ,  if those two are gone ?
ready.
will you sup with me tonight ,  casca ?
let them all come down .
you ,  to remove that siege of grief from her ,  betroth'd and would have married her perforce to county paris .
that were some spite; my invocation is fair and honest: in his mistress’ name ,  i conjure only but to raise up him .
wear thou thy wrongs; the title is affeer'd .
alas ,  what is the matter ?
the more i hate ,  the more he follows me .
while he was yet in rome his power went out in such distractions as beguiled all spies .
thomas the earl of surrey and himself ,  much about cockshut time ,  from troop to troop went through the army cheering up the soldiers .
as birds do, mother.
well met ,  honest gentleman .
no ,  cousin ,  i'll to fife .
uneven is the course; i like it not .
gentles ,  perchance you wonder at this show; but wonder on ,  till truth make all things plain .
thou wilt not murder me?
not where he eats ,  but where he is eaten .
but remember, for that's my business to you, that you three from milan did supplant good prospero; exposed unto the sea, which hath requit it, him and his innocent child; for which foul deed, the powers, delaying, not forgetting, have incensed the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures, against your peace.
is ’t possible ?
why do you infect yourself with them ?
well, sir.
yet i profess curing it by counsel .
go you and maintain talk with the duke ,  that my charity be not of him perceived .
you shall hear more by midnight .
i have't .
a guiltless death i die .
i do not think it good .
never make known what you have seen tonight .
didst not thou lead him through the glimmering night from perigouna, whom he ravished?
i gave thee mine before thou didst request it; and yet i would it were to give again.
and art thou living, stephano?
naked in bed, iago, and not mean harm!
and terms compulsatory ,  those foresaid lands so by his father lost .
aside to sebastian] i am right glad that he's so out [aside to sebastian] i am right glad that he's so out of hope .
but you ,  o you ,  so perfect and so peerless ,  are created of every creature's best !
why dost thou stay?
most royal sir, fleance is 'scaped.
i urged you further ,  then you scratched your head and too impatiently stamped with your foot .
therein ,  ye gods ,  you make the weak most strong; therein ,  ye gods ,  you tyrants do defeat .
i have.
if he be leaden ,  icy ,  cold ,  unwilling ,  be thou so too ,  and so break off the talk ,  and give us notice of his inclination; for we tomorrow hold divided councils ,  wherein thyself shalt highly be employed .
if more thou dost perceive ,  let me know more .
tis sweating labor to bear such idleness so near the heart as cleopatra this .
i grant i am a woman ,  but withal a woman well reputed ,  cato's daughter .
speak .
will you go ?
i thank you for this profit ,  and from hence i'll love no friend sith love breeds such offense .
thou know’st where i will tarry .
your loves ,  as mine to you .
tell me in sadness, who is that you love?
my lord ,  his majesty commended him to you by young osric ,  who brings back to him that you attend him in the hall .
phoebe did write it .
that’s my brave lord !
and that you would have me to do !
ay ,  thou poor ghost ,  while memory holds a seat in this distracted globe .
give them way till he take leave ,  and presently after him .
you see ,  her eyes are open .
the worser welcome.
nay, but ask my opinion too of that.
o caesar ,  read mine first ,  for mine’s a suit that touches caesar nearer .
i charge thee ,  speak !
is the day so young?
my leg is cut in two.
how do you, madam?
why ,  what is that to you ?
a peevish school boy, worthless of such honor, join'd with a masker and a reveller!
hail, mortal!
you have not called me so ,  nor have you cause .
well, she shall be there.
provoke not battle till we have done at sea .
then is the world one.
for mine own part—no offense to the general ,  nor any man of quality—i hope to be saved .
lo, where he comes!
you have lost no reputation at all ,  unless you repute yourself such a loser .
what think’st thou ,  will our friends prove all true ?
is he come home yet?
yea ,  that she did .
we shall lose our time, and all be turned to barnacles, or to apes with foreheads villanous low.
do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
could not this make thee know the hate i bear thee made me leave thee so ?
o bitter consequence that edward still should live  “ true noble prince ”  !
look you ,  she lov'd her kinsman tybalt dearly ,  and so did i .
but ,  in loving me ,  you should love the friend of france ,  for i love france so well that i will not part with a village of it .
what ,  wilt thou hear some music ,  my sweet love ?
but where tomorrow ?
must i stand and crouch under your testy humor ?
it is a most sharp sauce .
now.
coraggio ,  bully - monster ,   if these be true spies which i wear in my head ,  here’s a goodly sight .
what says my lord ?
i pray you ,  hear her speak .
god be wi' you ,  sir .
two such opposèd kings encamp them still ,  in man as well as herbs—grace and rude will .
o caesar, read mine first, for mine's a suit that touches caesar nearer.
you do impeach your modesty too much to leave the city and commit yourself into the hands of one that loves you not; to trust the opportunity of night ,  and the ill counsel of a desert place ,  with the rich worth of your virginity .
i have had four quarrels ,  and like to have fought one .
my powers are crescent ,  and my auguring hope says it will come to th’ full .
look how she rubs her hands.
out ,  tawny tartar ,  out !
there lies that tybalt .
god forbid!
abate the edge of traitors ,  gracious lord ,  that would reduce these bloody days again ,  and make poor england weep in streams of blood !
honest iago ,  that look'st dead with grieving ,  speak ,  who began this ?
hath she forsook so many noble matches ,  her father and her country ,  and her friends ,  to be called  “ whore ”  ?
goes fleance with you ?
i am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things: first ,  never to unfold to any one ,  which casket 'twas i chose; next ,  if i fail of the right casket ,  never in my life to woo a maid in way of marriage; lastly ,  if i do fail in fortune of my choice ,  immediately to leave you ,  and be gone .
my determinate voyage is mere extravagancy .
the story is extant ,  and writ in choice italian .
i will roar that i will do any man's heart good to hear me; i will roar ,  that i will make the duke say ‘let him roar again ,  let him roar again . ’ an you should do it too terribly ,  you would fright the duchess and the ladies ,  that they would shriek; and that were enough to hang us all .
she made good view of me ,  indeed so much that sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue ,  for she did speak in starts distractedly .
this did i fear, but thought he had no weapon; for he was great of heart.
be it so ,  lysander .
list, list, o, list!
i have two nights watched with you but can perceive no truth in your report .
peace yet again !
it stops me here ,  it is too much of joy .
win me and wear me !
what's the matter ?
all that i will tell you is ,  that the duke hath dined .
peace ,  ho ,  for shame !
the devil himself could not pronounce a title more hateful to mine ear .
and look you get a prayer book in your hand and stand between two churchmen ,  good my lord ,  for on that ground i’ll make a holy descant .
a friend.
alack ,  for mercy !
what is now amiss that caesar and his senate must redress?
oh ,  withered is the garland of the war .
my lord ?
a damnèd death !
give me a calendar .
i should sin to think but nobly of my grandmother .
he that thou knowest thine ,  hamlet .
if he have caught the benedick ,  it will cost him a thousand pound ere a be cured .
is ’t possible ?
if trembling i inhabit then ,  protest me the baby of a girl .
let me choose; for, as i am, i live upon the rack.
i pray thee ,  do not mock me ,  fellow student .
neither ,  my lord .
through the house give glimmering light ,  by the dead and drowsy fire; every elf and fairy sprite hop as light as bird from brier; and this ditty ,  after me ,  sing and dance it trippingly .
i took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me .  ”  that’s as much as to say ,   “ any pains that i take for you is as easy as thanks .  ”  if i do not take pity of her ,  i am a villain .
why ,  now ,  blow and ,  swell billow ,  and swim bark !
you’re sad ,  signior balthasar .
in any case, let thisbe have clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion pare his nails, for they shall hang out for the lion's claws.
seyton ! —i am sick at heart ,  when i behold—seyton ,  i say ! —this push will cheer me ever ,  or disseat me now .
well ,  my good lord ,  i have informed them so .
our course will seem too bloody ,  caius cassius ,  to cut the head off and then hack the limbs ,  like wrath in death and envy afterwards ,  for antony is but a limb of caesar .
and though we lay these honors on this man to ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads ,  he shall but bear them as the ass bears gold ,  to groan and sweat under the business ,  either led or driven ,  as we point the way .
what say you sir ?
i will give you the minstrel .
the funeral baked meats did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables .
let me endure your wrath, if't be not so.
demetrius loves her ,  and he loves not you .
committed!
is't possible ,  my lord ?
the enemies of caesar shall say this: then ,  in a friend ,  it is cold modesty .
who is this they follow ?
words ,  words ,  words .
a spirit ?
there’s ne'er a villain dwelling in all denmark but he’s an arrant knave .
will you pleasure me?
hail to thee ,  thane of glamis !
a good wench; give it me.
come, come with me, and we will make short work; for, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone till holy church incorporate two in one.
a grave ?
well run ,  thisbe .
send out more horses .
there’s no art to find the mind’s construction in the face .
my wife is coming yonder .
take up my mistress' gown for thy master’s use !
what ?
going to find a barefoot brother out ,  one of our order ,  to associate me here in this city visiting the sick ,  and finding him ,  the searchers of the town ,  suspecting that we both were in a house where the infectious pestilence did reign ,  seal'd up the doors ,  and would not let us forth ,  so that my speed to mantua there was stay'd .
i'll not be far from you.
so all hail ,  macbeth and banquo !
down with the topmast!
and when i love thee not, chaos is come again.
with who ?
signior baptista ,  will you be so strange ?
see better ,  lear ,  and let me still remain the true blank of thine eye .
twill be a good way ,  and tomorrow the wrestling is .
and so did i .
no, by no means.
no, in truth, sir, he should not.
you are resolute ,  then ?
where is my father and my mother ,  nurse ?
is not that he?
thou shalt know the man by the athenian garments he hath on .
indeed he is not fit .
but chiefly him that you termed ,  sir ,   “ the good old lord gonzalo ,  ”  his tears run down his beard like winter’s drops from eaves of reeds .
where is my gracious lord of canterbury ?
who's within?
i do not well understand that .
servant - monster ?
ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'—the proverb is something musty.
orsino .
a fig !
if a christian did not play the knave and get thee, i am much deceived.
have patience ,  madam .
now ,  'mongst this flock of drunkards ,  am i to put our cassio in some action that may offend the isle .
the name of cassius honors this corruption ,  and chastisement doth therefore hide his head .
for us ,  we will consider of this further .
o, farewell!
so are the prince and claudio ,  who accused her upon the error that you heard debated .
excellent well .
is not this true ?
confess yourself to heaven; repent what's past; avoid what is to come; and do not spread the compost on the weeds to make them ranker.
farewell, good launcelot.
here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.
i am not to you known ,  though ,  in your state of honor i am perfect .
sirrah ,  a word with you .
faith ,  e'en with losing his wits .
lady ,  you come hither to be married to this count ?
we wish your peace .
fare you well ,  my lord .
no .
a friendly eye could never see such faults .
if any man in italy have a fairer table, which doth offer to swear upon a book, i shall have good fortune!
fear not my government .
fled to his house amazed .
i do not know from what part of the world i should be greeted ,  if not from lord hamlet .
ay ,  there it is .
upon this hint i spake .
that may be ,  sir ,  when i may be a wife .
false ,  false .
hath there been such a time—i would fain know that— that i have positively said ‘'tis so , ’ when it proved otherwise ?
o child !
i sent for thee upon a sad occasion .
my lord .
a devil ,  a born devil on whose nature nurture can never stick ,  on whom my pains ,  humanely taken ,  all ,  all lost ,  quite lost .
kneel not ,  gentle portia .
how is't, my soul?
here in this island we arrived ,  and here have i ,  thy schoolmaster ,  made thee more profit than other princesess’ can ,  that have more time for vainer hours and tutors not so careful .
o that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
casca will tell us what the matter is .
o treason of the blood!
why ,  gentle sweet ,  you shall see no such thing .
tis said they eat each other .
say you so ?
nay ,  we will slink away in supper time ,  disguise us at my lodging ,  and return ,  all in an hour .
some of them will fall tomorrow ,  i hope .
the duke in council?
how canst thou woo her ?
how do you ,  cassio ? —oh ,  a chair ,  a chair !
what change is this, sweet love?
but first i’ll turn yon fellow in his grave and then return lamenting to my love .
in pity of the challenger’s youth ,  i would fain dissuade him ,  but he will not be entreated .
what part is that ,  my lord ?
my friends told me as much ,  and i thought no less .
then are our beggars bodies ,  and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows .
even a toy in hand here ,  sir .
the fiend is strong within him .
why then ,  alas ,  do i put up that womanly defense ,  to say i have done no harm ?
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands, and they unwash'd too, 'tis a foul thing.
you shall do marvelous wisely ,  good reynaldo ,  before you visit him ,  to make inquire of his behavior .
that you must teach me.
and while thou liv’st ,  dear kate ,  take a fellow of plain and uncoined constancy ,  for he perforce must do thee right because he hath not the gift to woo in other places .
let him alone; i'll follow him no more with bootless prayers .
go ,  vanish into air ,  away !
and wherefore are you gentle ,  strong ,  and valiant ?
bring me to octavius.
and that were enough to hang us all .
if the matter were good ,  my lord ,  i durst swear it were his .
all my reports go with the modest truth ,  nor more ,  nor clipped ,  but so .
could beauty ,  my lord ,  have better commerce than with honesty ?
bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel, be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
well then ,  if ever i thank any man ,  i’ll thank you .
thou bleed’st apace .
i was a fine fool to take it .
unmerciful lady as you are ,  i’m none .
this tunis ,  sir ,  was carthage .
such unconstant starts are we like to have from him as this of kent’s banishment .
he is dead and gone ,  lady ,  he is dead and gone; at his head a grass - green turf ,  at his heels a stone .
we coursed him at the heels and had a purpose to be his purveyor; but he rides well, and his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him to his home before us.
i pray thee ,  hear me speak .
out of my sight !
i pray you, let not my jealousies be your dishonors, but mine own safeties.
ay ,  you did wish that i would make her turn .
he will to his egyptian dish again .
if it be thus to dream ,  still let me sleep !
do we so .
what think you on't ?
good god ,  betimes remove the means that makes us strangers !
no wonder ,  sir ,  but certainly a maid .
that's the end .
you will to't, sir, really.
and let my liver rather heat with wine than my heart cool with mortifying groans .
shall rome, &amp;c. speak, strike, redress!” “brutus, thou sleep'st: awake!” such instigations have been often dropp'd where i have took them up.
he .
save yourself, my lord.
ay ,  let her rot and perish and be damned tonight ,  for she shall not live .
knock knock hark!
ay ,  my good lord .
let them be hunted soundly.
portia ,  go in awhile ,  and by and by thy bosom shall partake the secrets of my heart .
read it instantly .
who calls ?
if she be a traitor ,  why so am i .
here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
hang not on my garments .
in action how like an angel!
where ?
if this be not that you look for ,  i have no more to say ,  but bid bianca farewell forever and a day .
follow ,  follow !
then weep no more.
delay not ,  caesar; read it instantly .
flout ’em and scout ’em ,  and scout ’em and flout ’em thought is free .
deny to speak with me ?
why ,  know’st thou any harm’s intended towards him ?
leave her to heaven ,  and to those thorns that in her bosom lodge to prick and sting her .
to what issue will this come ?
and so ,  i pray thee ,  call beatrice .
if that be to care for nothing ,  sir ,  i would it would make you invisible .
beat him enough; after a little time i'll beat him too.
we follow thee.
what noise is this ? —not dead ?
pardon me, caesar, for my dear dear love to your proceeding bids me tell you this, and reason to my love is liable.
did you assay him to any pastime?
it is judgement maim'd and most imperfect, that will confess perfection so could err against all rules of nature, i therefore vouch again, that with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood, or with some dram conjured to this effect, he wrought upon her.
o ,  how my heart abhors to hear him nam'd and cannot come to him ,  to wreak the love i bore my cousin tybalt upon his body that hath slaughter'd him !
and yesterday the bird of night did sit even at noon - day upon the market - place ,  howling and shrieking .
if you prick us, do we not bleed?
that’s not an office for a friend ,  my lord .
go, farewell.
as proper men as ever trod upon neats - leather have gone upon my handiwork .
what, gertrude?
it is myself i mean ,  in whom i know all the particulars of vice so grafted that ,  when they shall be open'd ,  black macbeth will seem as pure as snow ,  and the poor state esteem him as a lamb ,  being compared with my confineless harms .
if you be he, sir, i desire some confidence with you.
there will she hide her to listen our propose .
no ,  pray thee ,  good meg ,  i’ll wear this .
is that the uttermost ?
then heaven have mercy on me !
oh ,  the world hath not a sweeter creature ,  she might lie by an emperor’s side and command him tasks .
this is the sergeant who like a good and hardy soldier fought 'gainst my captivity .
why should he stay whom love doth press to go ?
prithee ,  dispatch .
it is my day ,  my life .
come to me again ,  and bring me word what he doth say to thee .
i beseech you, let his lack of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation; for i never knew so young a body with so old a head.
i am no villain .
you swore to me, when i did give it you, that you would wear it till your hour of death; and that it should lie with you in your grave: though not for me, yet for your vehement oaths, you should have been respective, and have kept it.
we must be patient.
it is not honesty in me to speak what i have seen and known .
what news?
but there’s no goodness in thy face—if antony be free and healthful ,  so tart a favor to trumpet such good tidings !
is he gone and hath nothing ?
my lord ,  the first time that i ever saw him methought he was a brother to your daughter .
why will you mew her up ,  signior baptista ,  for this fiend of hell and make her bear the penance of her tongue ?
looks it not like the king ?
it is now two o'clock .
you are to blame ,  my lord ,  to rate her so .
grandam ,  this would have been a biting jest .
you lack the season of all natures, sleep.
you mar all with this starting.
that i did love the moor to live with him ,  my downright violence and storm of fortunes may trumpet to the world .
o ,  the blood is spill'd of my dear kinsman !
what’s that ,  i pray ?
what drink’st thou oft ,  instead of homage sweet ,  but poisoned flattery ?
make a short shrift .
good fool ,  for my brother’s death .
on what occasion god he knows ,  not i ,  the queen your mother and your brother york have taken sanctuary .
let him not come near me .
away, be gone; the sport is at the best.
he supped at my house ,  but i therefore shake not .
if you will come to me— for now i spy a danger—i entreat you to bring but five and twenty .
o wretched villain !
moreover that we much did long to see you, the need we have to use you did provoke our hasty sending.
i have done no harm .
that which ordinary men are fit for ,  i am qualified in .
flout ’em and scout ’em, and scout ’em and flout ’em thought is free.
do not abuse me .
you cannot, sir, take from me anything that i will more willingly part withal—except my life, except my life, except my life.
what ,  look you pale ?
make thick my blood, stop up the access and passage to remorse, that no compunctious visitings of nature shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between the effect and it!
whereby hangs a tale ,  sir ?
what is it that they do when they change us for others ?
who bids thee call ?
meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
all this done ,  repair to pompey’s porch ,  where you shall find us .
dear general, i never gave you cause.
what ,  thou speak’st drowsily ?
farewell.
there is no other shelter hereabouts .
for your life you durst not.
i’ll go arm myself .
fair sir ,  you are well o'erta'en: my lord bassanio ,  upon more advice ,  hath sent you here this ring ,  and doth entreat your company at dinner .
the old man’s daughter told us all .
yet fortune cannot recompense me better than to die well ,  and not my master’s debtor .
o, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
how ,  will she none ?
who calls so loud ?
but he hath chid me hence and threatened me to strike me ,  spurn me—nay ,  to kill me too .
what a piece of work is a man!
with courtesy and with respect enough, but not with such familiar instances, nor with such free and friendly conference, as he hath used of old.
but wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens ?
i thank you, doctor.
it is the greatest admiration in the universal world when the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the wars is not kept .
a foolish heart that i leave here behind.
fetch't ,  let me see it .
macduff ,  this noble passion ,  child of integrity ,  hath from my soul wiped the black scruples ,  reconciled my thoughts to thy good truth and honor .
i pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
a golden mind stoops not to shows of dross .
and look to have it yielded with all kindness .
by my head ,  here comes the capulets .
thou hast seen a farmer’s dog bark at a beggar ?
then thus: baptista is safe ,  talking with the deceiving father of a deceitful son .
now take them up ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ if any list .  ”    trembled and shook ,  for why he stamped and swore as if the vicar meant to cozen him .
i had forgot thee .
though that his joy be joy ,  yet throw such changes of vexation on't as it may lose some color .
yet do i fear thy nature; it is too full o’ the milk of human kindness to catch the nearest way.
so ,  you're paid .
will you pleasure me ?
i am .
ev'n as your horse bears your praises—who would trot as well were some of your brags dismounted .
why ,  all our ranks are broke .
ah ,  for our father ,  for our dear lord clarence !
i never thought him worse .
if that the turkish fleet be not enshelter'd and embay'd ,  they are drown'd; it is impossible to bear it out .
my lord ,  i have considered in my mind the late request that you did sound me in .
i prithee name the time ,  but let it not exceed three days .
you speak to casca ,  and to such a man that is no fleering telltale .
he's dead ,  he's dead ,  he's dead !
are not you a strumpet ?
there was more foolery yet ,  if i could remember it .
it then draws near the season wherein the spirit held his wont to walk .
have you the lion's part written?
masters ,  the duke is coming from the temple; and there is two or three lords and ladies more married .
it is perchance that you yourself were saved .
what news from genoa ?
tis fittest .
ay ,  do you fear it ?
now ,  most noble brutus ,  the gods today stand friendly that we may ,  lovers in peace ,  lead on our days to age .
a love song ,  a love song .
ay ,  my good lord .
a merry whoreson ,  ha !
tis torture and not mercy .
if he will not stand when he is bidden ,  he is none of the prince’s subjects .
for my lord lackbeard there ,  he and i shall meet ,  and till then peace be with him .
o setebos ,  these be brave spirits indeed !
neither can be enjoyed if both remain alive .
indeed!
first ,  he commends him to your noble self .
if you have tears ,  prepare to shed them now .
so do i ,  his .
i'll call them back again to comfort me .
and not a jot of  “ tranio ”  in your mouth .
to express the like kindness ,  myself ,  that have been more kindly beholding to you than any ,  freely give unto you this young scholar
yea ,  very force entangles itself with strength .
you can fool no more money out of me at this throw .
come ,  cousin ,  i am sure you love the gentleman .
virtue itself turns vice ,  being misapplied ,  and vice sometime by action dignified .
but since he is better we have therefore odds .
fair lady ,  do you think you have fools in hand ?
sir ,  will you ,  with those infirmities she owes— unfriended ,  new adopted to our hate ,  dowered with our curse and strangered with our oath— take her or leave her ?
a play there is ,  my lord ,  some ten words long ,  which is as brief as i have known a play; but by ten words ,  my lord ,  it is too long ,  which makes it tedious; for in all the play there is not one word apt ,  one player fitted .
oh ,  devil ,  devil !
turn ,  hellhound ,  turn !
what, art a heathen?
more light and light—more dark and dark our woes !
here, kiss the book.
here is my journey’s end ,  here is my butt ,  and very sea - mark of my utmost sail .
will you hear't again ?
they fell together all, as by consent; they dropped, as by a thunder-stroke.
sit thee down ,  clitus .
i will ,  my lord .
ay, my lord.
ay ,  with a twink .
that herod’s head i’ll have !
with an eye of green in ’t .
why did you bring these daggers from the place ?
out ,  damned spot !
you shall have none ill ,  sir; for i'll try if they can lick their fingers .
then have at you with my wit!
what is thy name ,  young man ?
therein our letters do not well agree .
ay ,  let the county take you in your bed !
tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus .
where love is great ,  the littlest doubts are fear; where little fears grow great ,  great love grows there .
break an hour’s promise in love ?
faith, sir, you need not fear.
is this a dagger which i see before me ,  the handle toward my hand ?
give me my sin again .
what wouldst thou now ?
i choose her for myself .
the clock struck nine when i did send the nurse .
o, think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
let me not ,  since i have my dukedom got and pardoned the deceiver ,  dwell in this bare island by your spell ,  but release me from my bands with the help of your good hands .
and, see your wife is with him.
to serve me well ,  you all should do me duty: teach me to be your queen ,  and you my subjects .
the jewels you have had from me to deliver to desdemona would half have corrupted a votarist .
i never hated thee .
when in that moment so it came to pass ,  titania waked and straightway loved an ass .
how do you mean ,  removing of him ?
thou’st spoken right .
tell me ,  that i may sack the hateful mansion .
for thou art as glorious to this night ,  being o'er my head ,  as is a winged messenger of heaven unto the white - upturned wond'ring eyes of mortals that fall back to gaze on him when he bestrides the lazy - pacing clouds and sails upon the bosom of the air .
why should that name be sounded more than yours?
hear me for my cause ,  and be silent that you may hear .
the concernancy ,  sir ?
madam ,  yond young fellow swears he will speak with you .
good morrow ,  my good lords .
thou hast done a deed— i care not for thy sword; i'll make thee known, though i lost twenty lives.
what sense had i of her stol'n hours of lust?
madam ,  the young gentleman of the count orsino’s is returned .
away !
how now ,  shylock ?
i prithee ,  pretty york ,  who told thee this ?
there’s another garment for ’t .
my ancestors did from the streets of rome the tarquin drive ,  when he was call'd a king .
what ,  are you mad ?
o fates ,  come ,  come ,  cut thread and thrum .
my heart to her but as guest - wise so journ'd ,  and now to helen is it home return'd ,  there to remain .
it was some fiend .
he hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not the stop.
which of you all will now deny to dance?
i would it might be hangers till then .
upon my power i may dismiss this court ,  unless bellario ,  a learnèd doctor ,  whom i have sent for to determine this ,  come here today .
i thank your lordship ,  you have got me one .
gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds, towards phoebus’ lodging!
the moon ,  methinks ,  looks with a watery eye; and when she weeps ,  weeps every little flower; lamenting some enforced chastity .
are all the rest come back?
your honor is most welcome .
and will you give me leave ?
this is a trick to put me from my suit.
i'll follow it .
ay ,  be so ,  good touchstone .
o trespass sweetly urg'd!
how comes this trick upon him ?
well ,  i’ll break in .
tarry ,  rash wanton .
i know thee not .
but what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these princely suitors that are already come ?
my lord, this would not be believed in venice, though i should swear i saw't.
to alonso] i would with such perfection govern, sir, [to alonso] i would with such perfection govern, sir, t'excel the golden age.
why ,  man ,  they did make love to this employment !
where left we last ?
o ,  yes ,  my lord ,  but very idle words .
there’s a strong fellow ,  menas .
wrong hath but wrong ,  and blame the due of blame .
what is her mother ?
alas ,  my lord ,  what may you mean by that ?
my dukedom since you have given me again, i will requite you with as good a thing; at least bring forth a wonder to content ye as much as me my dukedom.
of thy misprision must perforce ensue some true love turn'd ,  and not a false turn'd true .
very well.
thou almost mak'st me waver in my faith ,  to hold opinion with pythagoras ,  that souls of animals infuse themselves into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit govern'd a wolf ,  who ,  hang'd for human slaughter ,  even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet ,  and ,  whilst thou lay'st in thy unhallow'd dam ,  infus'd itself in thee; for thy desires are wolvish ,  bloody ,  sterved ,  and ravenous .
therefore i’ll sleep again .
it is my wretched fortune .
sleep dwell upon thine eyes ,  peace in thy breast .
my lord ,  i will use them according to their desert .
it is much ,  that the moor should be more than reason: but if she be less than an honest woman ,  she is ,  indeed more than i took her for .
do thou meet me presently at the harbor . —come hither .
would she were hearsed at my foot, and the ducats in her coffin!
he sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with laertes ,  or that you will take longer time .
nay ,  i am sure it is ,  volumnius .
if ever you disturb our streets again, your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
it is his hand ,  my lord ,  but i hope his heart is not in the contents .
tis he ,  that villain romeo .
and i must be from thence !
you shall mark many a duteous and kneecrooking knave ,  that doting on his own obsequious bondage wears out his time ,  much like his master's ass ,  for naught but provender; and ,  when he's old ,  cashier'd .
words ,  words ,  words .
the next thing then she waking looks upon— be it on lion ,  bear ,  or wolf ,  or bull ,  on meddling monkey or on busy ape— she shall pursue it with the soul of love .
thou hast done a deed— i care not for thy sword; i'll make thee known ,  though i lost twenty lives .
your fat king and your lean beggar is but variable service ,  two dishes ,  but to one table .
good morrow ,  worthy caesar !
for who would bear the whips and scorns of time, the oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, the pangs of disprized love, the law's delay, the insolence of office, and the spurns that patient merit of the unworthy takes, when he himself might his quietus make with a bare bodkin?
if you dare fight today, come to the field; if not, when you have stomachs.
and therefore ,  i pray thee ,  news .
and then he offered it the third time; he put it the third time by; and still as he refused it ,  the rabblement hooted and clapped their chopped hands and threw up their sweaty nightcaps and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because caesar refused the crown ,  that it had almost choked caesar ,  for he swounded and fell down at it .
first ,  i ask thee what they have done; thirdly ,  i ask thee what’s their offense; sixth and lastly ,  why they are committed; and ,  to conclude ,  what you lay to their charge .
bestow this place on us a little while .
now margaret’s curse is fall'n upon our heads ,  when she exclaimed on hastings ,  you ,  and i ,  for standing by when richard stabbed her son .
let her hang me .
i never did her any ,  to my knowledge .
it cannot be call'd our mother ,  but our grave .
that i distrust you .
an eagle, madam, hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye as paris hath.
and i beseech you instantly to visit my too much changèd son .
trust to't .
one word more ,  good lady .
o honey nurse, what news?
gramercy !
my clerk hath some good comforts too for you .
tis gone !
and here’s another ,  whose warped looks proclaim what store her heart is made on .
that’s as much as to say they are fools that marry .
rosencrantz and guildenstern hold their course for england .
o ,  wilt thou darkling leave me ?
what do you mean to dote thus on such luggage?
there’s little of the melancholy element in her ,  my lord .
since cassius first did whet me against caesar ,  i have not slept .
what do you mean ?
if she sustain him and his hundred knights when i have showed th' unfitness— here ,  madam .
caesar ,  my lord .
stands he or sits he ?
what ,  all my pretty chickens and their dam at one fell swoop ?
may one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
well ,  go thy way .
if you do fight in safeguard of your wives ,  your wives shall welcome home the conquerors .
my deeds upon my head !
ay, in the catalogue ye go for men, as hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs, shoughs, waterrugs, and demi-wolves are clept all by the name of dogs.
consider then, we come but in despite.
why ,  here begins his morning story right; these two antipholuses ,  these two so like ,  and these two dromios ,  one in semblance— besides her urging of her wreck at sea— these are the parents to these children ,  which accidentally are met together .
this is that banish'd haughty montague that murdered my love's cousin—with which grief it is supposed the fair creature died— and here is come to do some villanous shame to the dead bodies .
mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
lysander ,  speak again !
orlando .
is it so nominated in the bond?
o ,  hardness to dissemble !
make haste, lest mine be about your ears ere it be out.
but first i will release the fairy queen .
ha !
here is the money .
where is the king ?
i heard him swear his affection .
here he comes.
i thank thee for that jest .
i charge thee, speak!
room for antony ,  most noble antony .
god's benison go with you and with those that would make good of bad and friends of foes!
monster ,  i will kill this man .
what art thou that keep’st me out from the house i owe ?
he is no crescent ,  and his horns are invisible within the circumference .
she shall ,  lucentio .
let their beds be made as soft as yours and let their palates be seasoned with such viands ”  ?
since my dear soul was mistress of her choice and could of men distinguish ,  her election hath sealed thee for herself ,  for thou hast been— as one in suffering all that suffers nothing— a man that fortune’s buffets and rewards hast ta'en with equal thanks .
nay ,  if they lead to any ill ,  i will leave them at the next turning .
would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
so ,  slave ,  hence !
how came she by that light ?
where’s the king ?
do you note me?
hence with your little ones .
what is the matter ?
and may.
here is everything advantageous to life .
hie therefore ,  robin ,  overcast the night .
why, what's the matter?
more will i do— though all that i can do is nothing worth ,  since that my penitence comes after all ,  imploring pardon .
how dangerous is it that this man goes loose !
and fix'd his eyes upon you?
be gentle to her .
tis he .
and yet no matter .
here comes another of the tribe; a third cannot be matched, unless the devil himself turn jew.
be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned ,  bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell ,  be thy intents wicked or charitable ,  thou comest in such a questionable shape that i will speak to thee .
now all the blessings of a glad father ,  compass thee about .
you are my elder .
o ,  my old master . —who hath bound him here ?
do you not jest ?
ay ,  that petruchio came .
but for his purpose in the coronation ,  i have not sounded him ,  nor he delivered his gracious pleasure any way therein .
how many, as you guess?
it is ‘music with her silver sound’ because musi -  cians have no gold for sounding .
go to ,  woman !
i would my horse had the speed of your tongue and so good a continuer .
no ,  but she let it drop by negligence and ,  to th' advantage ,  i being here ,  took ’t up .
and i ,  my lord .
would i have never married my daughter there!
where the place?
an evil soul producing holy witness is like a villain with a smiling cheek ,  a goodly apple rotten at the heart .
avaunt !
myself will straight aboard, and to the state this heavy act with heavy heart relate.
lead away.
mistake me not .
i strike quickly ,  being moved .
fie ,  for shame !
i am amazed ,  and know not what to say .
cobweb.
i want more uncles here to welcome me .
keep thou the left .
i thank you ,  gentle uncle .
what is't thou canst demand ?
now do you know the reason of this haste.
why then ,  your ambition makes it one .
how can it he?
bring him with triumph home unto his house .
tis heavy night ,  these may be counterfeits .
within a month ,  ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears had left the flushing in her galled eyes ,  she married .
she was false as water .
i hope you will consider what is spoke comes from my love.
her blood is settled ,  and her joints are stiff .
i pray you ,  sir ,  take patience .
that same villain romeo .
varro and claudio !
macbeth !
seneca cannot be too heavy ,  nor plautus too light .
o sir ,  i do ,  and will repute you ever the patron of my life and liberty .
they did entreat me to acquaint her of it ,  but i persuaded them ,  if they loved benedick ,  to wish him wrestle with affection and never to let beatrice know of it .
heard you this, gonzalo?
here lies the water—good .
before my god ,  i might not this believe without the sensible and true avouch of mine own eyes .
but if thou dost break her virgin knot before all sanctimonious ceremonies may with full and holy rite be ministered ,  no sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall to make this contract grow ,  but barren hate ,  sour - eyed disdain ,  and discord shall bestrew the union of your bed with weeds so loathly that you shall hate it both .
and so will i .
i will not stay to offend you .
this interchange of love ,  i here protest ,  upon my part shall be inviolable .
words before blows .
do you not remember he saw a flea stick upon bardolph’s nose ,  and he said it was a black soul burning in hell ?
that if you be honest and fair ,  your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty .
that you shall surely find him ,  lead to the sagittary the raised search ,  and there will i be with him .
speak, an if you hear; speak, of all loves!
this night i’ll spend unto a dismal and a fatal end .
it is to be all made of sighs and tears ,  and so am i for phoebe .
it shall do well .
what’s your pleasure ,  sir ?
who comes here ?
honest nurse ,  farewell .
couple it with something; make it a word and a blow .
i wear it for a memorable honor ,  for i am welsh ,  you know ,  good countryman .
ay ,  springes to catch woodcocks .
soldier ,  you must come to the king .
as they pass by ,  pluck casca by the sleeve ,  and he will ,  after his sour fashion ,  tell you what hath proceeded worthy note today .
yet brutus says he was ambitious ,  and brutus is an honorable man .
oh ,  is this he ?
he receives comfort like cold porridge .
so be it .
work you ,  then .
true, my lord.
fear not ,  baptista ,  we will content you .
horatio says 'tis but our fantasy, and will not let belief take hold of him touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
o ,  these flaws and starts ,  impostors to true fear ,  would well become a woman's story at a winter's fire ,  authorized by her grandam .
i have great comfort from this fellow.
by the hour of nine .
yea ,  a daniel !
away ,  then !
prithee ,  horatio ,  tell me one thing .
you come most carefully upon your hour.
go and tell them so .
why in that rawness left you wife and child ,  those precious motives ,  those strong knots of love ,  without leave - taking ?
but for all this thou shalt have as many dolors for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year .
is that true ?
he knows that you embrace not antony as you did love ,  but as you feared him .
if she will return me my jewels i will give over my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation .
stand there !
why then ,  lead on .
is your englishman so expert in his drinking ?
give first admittance to th' ambassadors .
there the men are as mad as he.
uncomfortable time ,  why camest thou now to murder ,  murder our solemnity ?
most ungrateful maid !
look to your wife; observe her well with cassio; wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure.
mend me, thou saucy- fellow!
o true ,  good catesby .
my estate is very low .
she is daughter to this famous duke of milan, of whom so often i have heard renown, but never saw before; of whom i have received a second life; and second father this lady makes him to me.
if cassio do remain ,  he hath a daily beauty in his life that makes me ugly; and besides ,  the moor may unfold me to him; there stand i in much peril: no ,  he must die .
demetrius, i'll avouch it to his head, made love to nedar's daughter, helena, and won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes, devoutly dotes, dotes in idolatry, upon this spotted and inconstant man.
how canst thou try them so ?
you might have saved me my pains to have taken it away yourself .
the raven himself is hoarse that croaks the fatal entrance of duncan under my battlements.
would you would bear your fortune like a man !
aside] it goes on ,  i see ,  [aside] as my soul prompts it .
why ,  one that swears and lies .
so thou ,  that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee ,  with urging helpless patience would relieve me; but ,  if thou live to see like right bereft ,  this fool - begged patience in thee will be left .
ha ?
he could not have ’scaped sixpence a day .
the king shall drink to hamlet’s better breath ,  and in the cup an union shall he throw richer than that which four successive kings in denmark’s crown have worn .
that light we see is burning in my hall .
fates ,  we will know your pleasures .
hast thou slain tybalt?
oh ,  ominous !
be not afraid .
so every bondman in his own hand bears the power to cancel his captivity.
this same should be the voice of friar john .
if any, speak, for him have i offended.
for your sake, jewel, i am glad at soul i have no other child; for thy escape would teach me tyranny, to hang clogs on them.
send for the county .
meet presently at the palace .
he is much changed .
it is the east ,  and juliet is the sun .
let’s have the tongs and the bones .
the quality of mercy is not strained .
how fine my master is !
stand !
it may be so, for it is not mine own.
seven days and nights?
so shall i hope your virtues will bring him to his wonted way again, to both your honours.
not i ,  unless the breath of heartsick groans ,  mistlike ,  infold me from the search of eyes .
what is here ?
upon my power, i may dismiss this court, unless bellario, a learned doctor, whom i have sent for to determine this, come here to-day.
goneril with a white beard ?
but saying o'er what i have said before .
why wither not the leaves that want their sap ?
i know him; he wears a lock .
come on !
marry ,  they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw a crust at two hours old .
fair portia's counterfeit?
another way i have to man my haggard ,  to make her come and know her keeper’s call .
dost thou know the difference ,  my boy ,  between a bitter fool and a sweet fool ?
thou naughty knave, what trade?
the concernancy ,  sir ?
then ,  window ,  let day in and let life out .
whither should i fly ?
my wife!
with her, on her, what you will.
o ,  let me speak !
to know my deed ,  ’twere best not know myself .
i am glad on't .
o murderous slave !
yet ‘banished’?
ay me !
it is the more like to be feigned .
seest thou this sweet sight ?
run barefoot up and down ,  threatening the flames with bisson rheum; a clout upon that head where late the diadem stood ,  and for a robe ,  about her lank and all o'erteemed loins ,  a blanket ,  in the alarm of fear caught up— who this had seen ,  with tongue in venom steep'd 'gainst fortune's state would treason have pronounced .
look ,  sir ,  i bleed .
i take it your own business calls on you and you embrace th' occasion to depart .
is your man secret ?
it is both he and she: your son and daughter .
and i have heard apollodorus carried—                                                                               what ,  i pray you ?
after your death you were better have a bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
woo’t fight ?
the duke does greet you ,  general ,  and he requires your haste - post - haste appearance ,  even on the instant .
was he not companion with the riotous knights that tend upon my father ?
we do not know .
if you did wed my sister for her wealth ,  then for her wealth’s sake use her with more kindness .
on ,  on ,  you noblest english ,  whose blood is fet from fathers of war - proof ,  fathers that ,  like so many alexanders ,  have in these parts from morn till even fought and sheathed their swords for lack of argument .
ay ,  ay .
alas that love ,  whose view is muffled still ,  should without eyes see pathways to his will !
what are these so wither'd ,  and so wild in their attire ,  that look not like the inhabitants o’ the earth ,  and yet are on't ?
these foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit: adieu !
help, help, ho!
o these deliberate fools!
tis here .
this business is well ended.
stop in your wind ,  sir .
faith ,  sir ,  so - so .
we do not come, as minding to content you, our true intent is.
pretty ophelia!
if one should be a prey ,  how much the better to fall before the lion than the wolf !
light ,  i say ,  light !
for us ,  and for our tragedy ,  here stooping to your clemency ,  we beg your hearing patiently .
a carrion death, within whose empty eye there is a written scroll?
i have ’t .
what is it she does now ?
no ,  rather i will go to benedick and counsel him to fight against his passion; and truly i’ll devise some honest slanders to stain my cousin with .
saddle my horses .
then if he says he loves you ,  it fits your wisdom so far to believe it as he in his particular act and place may give his saying deed; which is no further than the main voice of denmark goes withal .
from france there comes a power into this scattered kingdom ,  who already ,  wise in our negligence ,  have secret feet in some of our best ports and are at point to show their open banner .
who are you?
be thou assured ,  good cassio ,  i will do all my abilities in thy behalf .
though news be sad ,  yet tell them merrily .
but hast thou yet latch'd the athenian's eyes with the love-juice, as i did bid thee do?
the dram of evil doth all the noble substance of a doubt to his own scandal.
i could make as true a boast as that if i had a sow to my mistress .
the hai!
how is't with you, my lord?
too early seen unknown ,  and known too late !
ay ,  at philippi .
ay .
then crush this herb into lysander's eye; whose liquor hath this virtuous property ,  to take from thence all error with his might and make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight .
there my lysander and myself shall meet .
but speak you this with a sad brow ?
i pray you stand good father to me now .
nay ,  send in time !
let grief convert to anger .
thanks, guildenstern and gentle rosencrantz.
i shall win at the odds.
if we offend ,  it is with our good will .
he does smile his face into more lines than is in the new map with the augmentation of the indies .
but the great one that goes up the hill ,  let him draw thee after .
yes ,  the fashion is the fashion .
you see an ass head of your own ,  do you ?
the wine she drinks is made of grapes .
a poor unfortunate beggar .
who’s gone this morning ?
this is the pent - house ,  under which lorenzo desir'd us to make stand .
farewell .
the fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride for fair without the fair within to hide.
here it is, i think.
enough .
he says they can do nothing in this kind .
be not afraid of greatness .  ”  'twas well writ .
drunk all ,  and left no friendly drop to help me after ?
i had my father’s signet in my purse ,  which was the model of that danish seal .
in this last tempest .
we shall ne'er be younger .
oh ,  she is lame !
i'll call upon you straight .
casca ,  by your voice .
at my lodging .
i pray you, know me, when we meet again; i wish you well, and so i take my leave.
what ,  not to pray ?
the pox of such antic, lisping, affecting fantasticoes—these new tuners of accent!
renown and grace is dead .
that will ask some tears in the true performing of it.
nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
yet brutus says he was ambitious ,  and sure he is an honorable man .
no passage?
what's he that follows there ,  that would not dance ?
rude am i in my speech ,  and little blest with the soft phrase of peace; for since these arms of mine had seven years' pith ,  till now some nine moons wasted ,  they have used their dearest action in the tented field ,  and little of this great world can i speak ,  more than pertains to feats of broil and battle; and therefore little shall i grace my cause in speaking for myself .
well ,  i’ll end the song . —sirs ,  cover the while; the duke will drink under this tree . —he hath been all this day to look you .
read this schedule .
and from hence i go to make these doubts all even .
i think it doth .
one turf shall serve as pillow for us both; one heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth.
you have killed a sweet lady ,  and her death shall fall heavy on you .
tell him i’ll knock his leek about his pate upon saint davy’s day .
this is the silliest stuff that ever i heard .
no hope that way is another way so high a hope that even ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond ,  but doubt discovery there .
my lord of warwick ,  here is ,  praised be god for it ,  a most contagious treason come to light ,  look you ,  as you shall desire in a summer’s day .
as far ,  my lord ,  as will fill up the time 'twixt this and supper .
so.
some grief shows much of love ,  but much of grief shows still some want of wit .
she is banished .
draw thy sword—one stroke shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest, and i the king shall love thee.
thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars, telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars, and wilt not come?
ah ha !
nay ,  i will .
as i am an honest man ,  i thought you had received some bodily wound .
you wrong me ,  brutus .
go to !
perchance she cannot meet him .
what concern they ?
but i remember now i am in this earthly world ,  where to do harm is often laudable ,  to do good sometime accounted dangerous folly .
for mine own part ,  no offence to the general nor any man of quality ,  i hope to be saved .
what is now amiss that caesar and his senate must redress ?
who is thy lord ?
what seest thou else in the dark backward and abyss of time?
love ?
what dost you mean by this ?
the spring ,  the summer ,  the childing autumn ,  angry winter ,  change their wonted liveries; and the mazed world ,  by their increase ,  now knows not which is which .
do not go forth today .
caesar is turned to hear .
kneel not ,  gentle portia .
amen ,  amen !
well ,  well ,  put up your sword .
not one ,  my lord .
marry ,  you may partly hope that your father got you not ,  that you are not the jew's daughter .
if my lady have not called up her steward malvolio and bid him turn you out of doors ,  never trust me .
i must fetch his necessaries ashore .
a king of shreds and patches !
and in the morn and liquid dew of youth ,  contagious blastments are most imminent .
much good do you ,  scald knave ,  heartily .
what ,  keep a week away ?
swear.
my lord ,  there was no such stuff in my thoughts .
what is it thou didst say?
ay ,  husband .
if th' other two be brained like us ,  the state totters .
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be to him shortly as acerb as the coloquintida.
nature presently distilled helen’s cheek ,  but not her heart ,  cleopatra’s majesty ,  atalanta’s better part ,  sad lucretia’s modesty .
yes ,  it is apparel .
sweet ,  so would i .
therefore the winds ,  piping to us in vain ,  as in revenge ,  have sucked up from the sea contagious fogs ,  which falling in the land have every pelting river made so proud that they have overborne their continents .
now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks: they'll be in scarlet straight at any news .
his son is elder ,  sir; his son is thirty .
it is as easy as lying.
oh ,  behold ,  the riches of the ship is come on shore !
she that would alter services with thee ,   the fortunate unhappy ”   daylight and champaign discovers not more .
the fiend is rough and will not be roughly used .
well then ,  confess and live .
where is our usual manager of mirth?
murder !
lorenzo, and thy love.
i am not drunk now; i can stand well enough, and i speak well enough.
twas of some estate.
for the table, sir, it shall be served in; for the meat, sir, it shall be covered; for your coming into dinner, sir, why, let it be as humours and conceits shall govern.
hast thou forgot her?
let me see: who chooseth me, shall gain what many men desire.
romeo ,  doff thy name; and for that name ,  which is no part of thee ,  take all myself .
has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at grave-making?
to what end did i bid thee hie thee home ?
romeo can ,  though heaven cannot .
most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope the lord's anointed temple and stole thence the life o’ the building .
hark!
a greater power than we can contradict hath thwarted our intents .
now sir ,  be judge yourself ,  whether i in any just term am affined to love the moor .
as low as to thy foot doth cassius fall to beg enfranchisement for publius cimber .
what would you with me ,  honest neighbor ?
to make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl ?
nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
please you ,  farther .
nurse!— what should she do here?
i kiss the instrument of their pleasures.
so thrive my soul— a thousand times good night!
there shall i try, in my oration, how the people take the cruel issue of these bloody men, according to the which thou shalt discourse to young octavius of the state of things.
i thank you ,  valiant cassio .
i say a devil .
the king doth wake tonight and takes his rouse, keeps wassail, and the swaggering upspring reels, and as he drains his draughts of rhenish down, the kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out the triumph of his pledge.
he came with flowers to strew his lady's grave; and bid me stand aloof ,  and so i did .
have you not spoken 'gainst the duke of cornwall aught ?
let the earth hide thee !
there's ne'er a villain dwelling in all denmark but he's an arrant knave.
why ,  thy horn is a foot ,  and so long am i ,  at the least .
aside] poor worm ,  thou art infected !
my charms i'll break, their senses i'll restore, and they shall be themselves.
thy evil spirit ,  brutus .
you do surely bar the door upon your own liberty ,  if you deny your griefs to your friend .
what ,  art thou afraid ?
i hope now thou art not drowned .
will you think so?
how oddly thou reply'st!
now ,  by my troth ,  if i had been remembered ,  i could have given my uncle’s grace a flout to touch his growth nearer than he touched mine .
arise ,  dissembler .
o ,  thou well - skilled in curses ,  stay awhile ,  and teach me how to curse mine enemies .
who’s there ?
i had rather break mine own .
pray you, make haste.
i saw bassanio and antonio part .
i would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body .
do so ,  good messala .
i will go seek the king.
he’ll but break a comparison or two on me ,  which ,  peradventure not marked or not laughed at ,  strikes him into melancholy ,  and then there’s a partridge wing saved ,  for the fool will eat no supper that night .
tropically .
bear hence this body, and attend our will.
ay ,  he spoke greek .
out o'th’ moon ,  i do assure thee: i was the man i'th’ moon when time was .
i shall not dine at home; i meet the captains at the citadel.
grumio gave order how it should be done .
come ,  one for me .
what kind of woman is’t ?
this is my daughter's jointure ,  for no more can i demand .
who comes with him ?
i sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none .
this castle hath a pleasant seat; the air nimbly and sweetly recommends itself unto our gentle senses.
wherefore rise you now?
thy lips are warm !
groan !
as much unto my good lord chamberlain .
romeo !
i will confess it to all the 'orld .
get you all three into the boxtree .
are you wise?
he shall think ,  by the letters that thou wilt drop ,  that they come from my niece ,  and that she’s in love with him .
forsooth, a great arithmetician, one michael cassio, a florentine a fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife that never set a squadron in the field, nor the division of a battle knows more than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric, where in the toga'd consuls can propose as masterly as he; mere prattle without practice, is all his soldiership.
thou hast taken against me a most just exception; but yet ,  i protest ,  have dealt most directly in thy affair .
my fair bianca ,  bid my father welcome ,  while i with selfsame kindness welcome thine .
come ,  for the third ,  laertes .
in faith ,  i will .
is your name goneril ?
my love doth so approve him ,  that even his stubbornness ,  his checks ,  his frowns— prithee ,  unpin me—have grace and favor in them .
be your tears wet ?
an if thou couldst ,  thou couldst not make him live .
this accident is not unlike my dream ,  belief of it oppresses me already .
ay ,  sir ,  it is too true ,  god help the while .
oh ,  well - a - day ,  lady !
good father ,  i beseech you on my knees ,  hear me with patience but to speak a word .
look where he goes even now out at the portal !
th’ exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
i grant you .
four legs and two voices—a most delicate monster .
ay, madam, it is common.
this letter he early bid me give his father, and threat'ned me with death, going in the vault, if i departed not and left him there.
no ,  not a whit .
stand !
for him ,  i think not on him .
you would be ,  sweet madam ,  if your miseries were in the same abundance as your good fortunes are; and yet ,  for aught i see ,  they are as sick that surfeit with too much ,  as they that starve with nothing .
here lie i down and measure out my grave .
i’ll tell my husband ,  launcelot ,  what you say .
as love is ,  my lord ,  before it loves .
and in their ship i am sure lorenzo is not .
i will not hear thee speak .
o ill - dispersing wind of misery !
i will prove it legitimate ,  sir ,  upon the oaths of judgment and reason .
how doth my lady ?
you knew—none so well ,  none so well as you—of my daughter’s flight .
good thou ,  save me a piece of marchpane and ,  as thou lovest me ,  let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell .
go thy ways ,  wench .
but age with his stealing steps hath clawed me in his clutch, and hath shipped me intil the land, as if i had never been such.
grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath .
what is pyramus ?
if you could hurt ,  your swords are now too massy for your strengths and will not be uplifted .
fly ?
do you not jest ?
go get thee to thy love ,  as was decreed ,  ascend her chamber ,  hence and comfort her .
my mistress with a monster is in love .
wherefore to dover ?
i never knew a woman love man so.
i like him not, nor stands it safe with us to let his madness range.
no ?
i will not stay to offend you.
what ,  grumio !
i pray thee ,  let us go and find him out and quicken his embracèd heaviness with some delight or other .
add thereto a tiger's chaudron ,  for the ingredients of our cauldron .
i would do much to atone them, for the love i bear to cassio.
let’s talk .
now jove ,  in his next commodity of hair ,  send thee a beard !
but this it is: our foot upon the hills adjoining to the city shall stay with us .
have you had quiet guard?
good duke ,  receive thy daughter .
o lorenzo ,  if thou keep promise ,  i shall end this strife ,  become a christian and thy loving wife .
o, that's an honest fellow.
a trumpet without.
sent he to macduff ?
season your admiration for a while with an attent ear, till i may deliver upon the witness of these gentlemen, this marvel to you.
o lady ,  speak again !
have at the very eye of that proverb with  “ a pox of the devil .  ”   you are the better at proverbs ,  by how much  “ a fool’s bolt is soon shot .  ”   you have shot over .
life, living, all is death's.
as from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites, to countenance this horror!
what is the time o'th’ day ?
in troth ,  i think i should ,  and undo't when i had done .
if you be he ,  sir ,  i desire some confidence with you .
if any wretch have put this in your head ,  let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse !
prove true ,  imagination ,  oh ,  prove true ,  that i ,  dear brother ,  be now ta'en for you !
you speak all your part at once ,  cues ,  and all .
as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast .
he’s married .
fare you well .
you told me you salute not at the court but you kiss your hands .
yield ,  or thou diest .
murder ,  murder !
it is ‘music with her silver sound’ because musi- cians have no gold for sounding.
here comes newer comfort.
i tell thee ,  man ,  ’tis better with me now than when thou met’st me last where now we meet .
here comes the furious tybalt back again .
remember march, the ides of march remember.
couple it with something .
hope i may choose ,  sir .
what stature is she of ?
yet that is but a crushed necessity ,  since we have locks to safeguard necessaries and pretty traps to catch the petty thieves .
i am not of your element .
why should that name be sounded more than yours ?
to her that is not here ,  nor doth not hear .
if love be blind ,  love cannot hit the mark .
my bond to the jew is forfeit .
caesar ,  all hail !
follow ”  ?
by foul play ,  as thou sayst ,  were we heaved thence ,  but blessedly holp hither .
we have lost best half of our affair .
or ,  rather ,  do i not in plainest truth tell you i do not nor i cannot love you ?
i am but hurt .
so the maid that stood in the way for my wish shall show me the way to my will .
well ,  honor is the subject of my story .
if all the wine in my bottle will recover him ,  i will help his ague .
and ,  as thou badest me ,  in troops i have dispersed them 'bout the isle .
i have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze but that this folly drowns it.
let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill ,  lest it break thy neck with following it .
yes ,  that i did; but that was but courtesy .
in my schooldays ,  when i had lost one shaft ,  i shot his fellow of the self - same flight the self - same way ,  with more advised watch ,  to find the other forth; and by adventuring both i oft found both: i urge this childhood proof ,  because what follows is pure innocence .
even so great men great losses should endure.
whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief— a passion most unsuiting such a man— cassio came hither.
i cannot hope caesar and antony shall well greet together .
to bed ,  to bed .
they are of norway, sir.
for when mine hours were nice and lucky ,  men did ransom lives of me for jests; but now i’ll set my teeth and send to darkness all that stop me .
madam, it is, so you stand pleas'd withal.
now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
i give him curses ,  yet he gives me love .
was ’t not to this end that thou began’st to twist so fine a story ?
by my troth ,  sir toby ,  you must come in earlier o' nights .
did you know him?
nay ,  i prithee stay a little .
o ,  lady ,  lady ,  shame would have it hid .
that’s my noble master !
why ,
all’s cheerless ,  dark ,  and deadly .
take time to pause; and by the next new moon— the sealing - day betwixt my love and me for everlasting bond of fellowship , — upon that day either prepare to die for disobedience to your father's will ,  or else to wed demetrius ,  as he would ,  or on diana's altar to protest for aye austerity and single life .
why do you weep?
aside .
o insupportable and touching loss !
well, juliet, i will lie with thee to-night.
much will be seen in that .
oh ,  that’s a brave man .
tell me in sadness ,  who is that you love ?
my life is my foe's debt .
a south-west blow on ye and blister you all o'er!
you may do your will, but he's a tried and valiant soldier.
the residue of your fortune go to my cave and tell me . —good old man ,  thou art right welcome as thy master is .
now i arise .
you must not stay here longer .
what noise ?
there was blow for blow .
for all, our thanks.
virtue is beauty ,  but the beauteous evil are empty trunks o'erflourished by the devil .
is not parchment made of sheepskins ?
the queen carouses to thy fortune, hamlet.
honest nurse ,  farewell .
and fair words to them .
now near enough; your leavy screens throw down ,  and show like those you are .
farewell, father.
i shall in all my best obey you, madam.
realms and islands were as plates dropped from his pocket .
henceforward i am ever rul'd by you .
when my tongue blabs ,  then let mine eyes not see .
but come what sorrow can, it cannot countervail the exchange of joy that one short minute gives me in her sight.
speak; tell me.
tis true ,  my lords ,  he did .
i’ll wear none but this .
what ,  i ,  my lord ?
it is ,  it is .
so i hope ,  i was not born to die on brutus' sword .
but i'll set down the pegs that make this music, as honest as i am.
i think, i'faith, she loves me.
let't alone, and do the murder first.
you cannot feed capons so .
i will ,  my lord .
is there none here to give the woman ?
no ,  ’tis hereafter to know ,  but now to promise .
hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety— which we do tender as we dearly grieve for that which thou hast done—must send thee hence with fiery quickness.
hark .
what’s the matter ?
pale as thy smock !
i have some business .
and o you mortal engines, whose rude throats the immortal jove's dread clamors counterfeit, farewell!
do not say ‘banishment.’ hence from verona art thou banished.
how oddly he is suited !
all eyes !
i will stand ,  and so shall trinculo .
no ,  monster ,  not i .
i know it pleaseth neither of us well .
within this roof the enemy of all your graces lives .
we will have more of this tomorrow .
but were the day come ,  i should wish it dark ,  that i were couching with the doctor’s clerk .
what have i done ,  that thou darest wag thy tongue in noise so rude against me ?
i will bring you thither.
i have heard the cock ,  that is the trumpet to the morn ,  doth with his lofty and shrill - sounding throat awake the god of day ,  and at his warning ,  whether in sea or fire ,  in earth or air ,  the extravagant and erring spirit hies to his confine; and of the truth herein this present object made probation .
i will not trust you, i; nor longer stay in your curst company.
you are a spirit ,  i know .
he is welcome hither .
hail, king of scotland!
i’ll make division of my present with you .
amaze the welkin with your broken staves—
when i spoke that ,  i was ill - tempered too .
if you were civil and knew courtesy ,  you would not do me thus much injury .
on what compulsion must i ?
and for the jew’s bond which he hath of me ,  let it not enter in your mind of love .
no ,  not an oath .
thou hast by moonlight at her window sung with feigning voice verses of feigning love ,  and stol'n the impression of her fantasy with bracelets of thy hair ,  rings ,  gauds ,  conceits ,  knacks ,  trifles ,  nosegays ,  sweetmeats—messengers of strong prevailment in unhardened youth .
sweet ,  adieu !
but where was this?
casca will tell us what the matter is .
is that the meaning of  “ accost ”  ?
who would fardels bear ,  to grunt and sweat under a weary life ,  but that the dread of something after death the undiscover'd country ,  from whose bourn no traveller returns ,  puzzles the will ,  and makes us rather bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not of ?
our duty to your honor .
more matter for a may morning .
iago, look with care about the town, and silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
take thy forfeiture.
beware the ides of march.
you know that i held epicurus strong ,  and his opinion .
that will ask some tears in the true performing of it .
ay ,  but he will not now be pacified .
macbeth !
command him away .
i thank you .
i had it of him: pardon me, bassanio: for by this ring the doctor lay with me.
the law that threatened death becomes thy friend and turns it to exile—there art thou happy .
i shall answer for her .
shylock ,  albeit i neither lend nor borrow ,  by taking ,  nor by giving of excess ,  yet ,  to supply the ripe wants of my friend ,  i'll break a custom:—is he yet possess'd how much you would ?
what ,  dost thou make us minstrels ?
my lord ,  from head to foot .
aside] their understanding [aside] their understanding begins to swell, and the approaching tide will shortly fill the reasonable shore that now lie foul and muddy.
an i had been a man of any occupation ,  if i would not have taken him at a word ,  i would i might go to hell among the rogues .
oh ,  give us leave ,  great king ,  to view the field in safety and dispose of their dead bodies .
how say you ,  sir ?
the gods do this in shame of cowardice.
ay ,  madam ,  well ,  for i was bred and born not three hours' travel from this very place .
herein i see thou lov’st me not with the full weight that i love thee .
therefore get you on and give him his desire .
we coted them on the way, and hither are they com- ing to offer you service.
i should have given ’t you today morning ,  but as a madman’s epistles are no gospels ,  so it skills not much when they are delivered .
if you have tears ,  prepare to shed them now .
ay ,  marry ,  are they ,  sir .
but ,  sir ,  such wanton ,  wild ,  and usual slips
prithee say on .
to thee i do commend my watchful soul ,  ere i let fall the windows of mine eyes .
nymph ,  in thy orisons be all my sins remembered .
i reasoned with a frenchman yesterday ,  who told me ,  in the narrow seas that part the french and english ,  there miscarried a vessel of our country richly fraught .
dearly, my delicate ariel.
that which i gave you .
tis age that nourisheth .
to me it is a prison .
thou art a fellow of a good respect .
we have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested .
they would be better ,  if well followed .
forgot you !
were you made the messenger ?
by my troth ,  niece ,  thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue .
your royal father's murdered.
if he distaste it ,  let him to our sister ,  whose mind and mine i know in that are one ,  not to be overruled .
now know you, casca, i have moved already some certain of the noblest-minded romans to undergo with me an enterprise of honorable-dangerous consequence; and i do know, by this they stay for me in pompey's porch.
o dear phoebe ,  if ever—as that ever may be near— you meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy ,  then shall you know the wounds invisible that love’s keen arrows make .
even he ,  madam .
not honestly ,  my lord ,  but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me .
i greet thy love not with vain thanks but with acceptance bounteous ,  and will upon the instant put thee to ’t .
in my mind's eye ,  horatio .
come ,  seeling night ,  scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day ,  and with thy bloody and invisible hand cancel and tear to pieces that great bond which keeps me pale !
for those of old ,  and the late dignities heap'd up to them ,  we rest your hermits .
make haste; thou know'st where i will tarry .
lo ,  here i lie ,  never to rise again .
come, brands, ho, fire-.
o that she knew she were !
and ,  gentle puck ,  take this transformed scalp from off the head of this athenian swain ,  that he awaking when the other do may all to athens back again repair ,  and think no more of this night's accidents but as the fierce vexation of a dream .
alas, good gentleman!
therefore i took your hands, but was indeed sway'd from the point by looking down on caesar.
o brutus !
at such a time i’ll loose my daughter to him .
if love be rough with you ,  be rough with love .
ay ,  with a twink .
nerissa ,  cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome .
grant that ,  and then is death a benefit; so are we caesar's friends that have abridged his time of fearing death .
be assured you may .
you wrong me every way, you wrong me, brutus.
troth ,  i think your other rebato were better .
my lord ,  we were sent for .
i’ll go along ,  no such sight to be shown ,  but to rejoice in splendor of mine own .
here comes a spirit of his ,  and to torment me for bringing wood in slowly ,  i'll fall flat .
but why stands macbeth thus amazedly?
from tripolis, from mexico, and england, from lisbon, barbary, and india?
calphurnia’s cheek is pale ,  and cicero looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes as we have seen him in the capitol being crossed in conference by some senators .
all things are ready if our minds be so .
tis deeply sworn.
of all the days i' the year ,  i came to't that day that our last king hamlet overcame fortinbras .
for you know ,  nuncle ,  the hedge - sparrow fed the cuckoo so long ,  that it’s had it head bit off by it young .
farewell content !
the king hath note of all that they intend ,  by interception which they dream not of .
this quarry cries on havoc.
by the lord ,  horatio ,  this three years i have taken note of it ,  the age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe .
and thus a while the fit will work on him .
do not doubt ,  cassio ,  but i will have my lord and you again as friendly as you were .
you mar our labor .
what early tongue so sweet saluteth me ?
but ,  look you ,  cassius ,  the angry spot doth glow on caesar’s brow ,  and all the rest look like a chidden train .
the matter ?
why ,  i will see thee at philippi then .
nay, bigger!
carried to colmekill ,  the sacred storehouse of his predecessors ,  and guardian of their bones .
now ,  what news on the rialto ?
here let them lie till famine and the ague eat them up .
trouble yourselves no further .
shall caesar send a lie ?
where is thy blush?
what can he say in this?
o ,  thou didst prophesy the time would come that i should wish for thee to help me curse that bottled spider ,  that foul bunch - backed toad !
his folly ,  helena ,  is no fault of mine .
i'll put it on .
chid i for that at frugal nature’s frame ?
what, is antonio here?
are they married ,  think you ?
the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to laertes before you fall to play.
then you must say  “ i take thee ,  rosalind ,  for wife .  ”  i take thee ,  rosalind ,  for wife .
why did he so ?
certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this jew ,  my master .
hippolyta ,  i woo'd thee with my sword ,  and won thy love doing thee injuries; but i will wed thee in another key ,  with pomp ,  with triumph ,  and with revelling .
beat him enough .
but yet the pity of it, iago!
and here he stands .
the thought whereof doth ,  like a poisonous mineral ,  gnaw my inwards ,  and nothing can or shall content my soul till i am evened with him ,  wife for wife .
o lamentable day !
your lordship speaks most infallibly of him .
mistrust of good success hath done this deed .
away !
thou hast killed my child .
gentlemen, my master antonio is at his house, and desires to speak with you both.
but is he often thus ?
i have a file of all the gentry .
they have not been commanded ,  mighty king .
and he’s gone .
have you conspired, have you with these contrived, to bait me with this foul derision?
one side will mock another—th' other too .
ay ,  my lord .
ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears ,  that long time have been barren .
to her ,  my lord ,  was i betrothed ere i saw hermia .
statilius show'd the torch - light ,  but ,  my lord ,  he came not back .
as woman's love.
and you ,  good yeoman ,  whose limbs were made in england ,  show us here the mettle of your pasture .
thy thoughts i cleave to.
my visor is philemon’s roof; within the house is jove .
why ,  so i do .
do you mark that?
so are those crispèd snaky golden locks which maketh such wanton gambols with the wind ,  upon supposèd fairness ,  often known to be the dowry of a second head ,  the skull that bred them in the sepulcher .
this lanthorn doth the hornèd moon present .
banquo!
for certain ,  sir ,  he is not .
for what advancement may i hope from thee that no revenue hast but thy good spirits ,  to feed and clothe thee ?
go ,  good tubal .
as wicked dew as e'er my mother brushed with raven's feather from unwholesome fen drop on you both!
it is your music, madam, of the house.
stand !
as i!
do as thou wilt ,  for i have done with thee .
i know you not .
my lord ,  we were sent for .
they swore that you were almost sick for me .
nay ,  like enough ,  for i stay dinner there .
let me work; for i can give his humor the true bent, and i will bring him to the capitol.
o ,  thou wilt speak again of banishment .
smilest thou ?
pretty ophelia !
the phrase would be more german to the matter if we could carry a cannon by our sides .
this nothing's more than matter .
we took this mattock and this spade from him as he was coming from this churchyard side.
look to the lady .
tedious ”  and  “ brief ”  ?
the folly of this island !
if you do sorrow at my grief in love ,  by giving love your sorrow and my grief were both extermined .
fie ,  now you run this humor out of breath .
it is some meteor that the sun exhales to be to thee this night a torchbearer and light thee on thy way to mantua.
well, be may chance to do some good on her.
perform ’t ,  or else we damn thee .  ”                                                                      how ,  my love ?
sblood ,  but you’ll not hear me !
what dost thou say ?
ah ,  juliet ,  if the measure of thy joy be heap'd like mine ,  and that thy skill be more to blazon it ,  then sweeten with thy breath this neighbour air ,  and let rich music's tongue unfold the imagin'd happiness that both receive in either by this dear encounter .
murder !
hamlet in madness hath polonius slain, and from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
are not you he ?
where are thy two sons ?
it is not yet near day .
when caesar lived ,  he durst not thus have moved me .
at night we’ll feast together .
who’s there ?
till which encounter it is my business too .
not that i think you did not love your father ,  but that i know love is begun by time ,  and that i see ,  in passages of proof ,  time qualifies the spark and fire of it .
i'll find out your man, and he shall signify from time to time every good hap to you that chances here.
speak ,  man .
now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this son of york ,  and all the clouds that loured upon our house in the deep bosom of the ocean buried .
but of that tomorrow ,  when therewithal we shall have cause of state craving us jointly .
sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
the wood of birnam .
why?
kind tyrrel ,  am i happy in thy news ?
call in the messengers sent from the dauphin .
she well instructs me.
tis well consented .
good night to you .
upon condition publius shall not live ,  who is your sister's son ,  mark antony .
excellent .
if that thou be'st a devil ,  i cannot kill thee .
what sayst thou to me now ?
gentlemen!
since that respects and fortunes are his love ,  i shall not be his wife .
i dare draw as soon as another man, if i see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law on my side.
the one of them imports the death of cassio to be undertook by roderigo .
they say he cried out of sack .
it is not nor it cannot come to good ,  but break ,  my heart ,  for i must hold my tongue .
in some bush ?
he were a brave mon -  ster indeed ,  if they were set in his tail my man - monster hath drowned his tongue in sack .
villain and he be many miles asunder.
but this place is too cold for hell .
i have not heard the clock .
as the time, the place, and the condition of this country stands, i could heartily wish this had not befallen; but since it is as it is, mend it for your own good.
bite him to death, i [to stephano] lo, lo, again!
he’s friends with caesar ,  in state of health ,  thou say’st ,  and ,  thou say’st ,  free .
what poor an instrument may do a noble deed !
you see an ass - head of your own ,  do you ?
i denied you not .
ah ,  fie !
good even, casca.
was ever woman in this humor won ?
for lord hamlet ,  believe so much in him that he is young ,  and with a larger tether may he walk than may be given you .
i do think there is mettle in death ,  which commits some loving act upon her ,  she hath such a celerity in dying .
and will you ,  being a man of your breeding ,  be married under a bush like a beggar ?
death ,  that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath ,  hath had no power yet upon thy beauty .
not for thy fairy kingdom .
and i will purge thy mortal grossness so that thou shalt like an airy spirit go . — peaseblossom ,  cobweb ,  moth ,  and mustardseed !
if he come not ,  then the play is marred; it goes not forward ,  doth it ?
in god’s name ,  what art thou ?
how’s that ?
welcome .
i will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so indiscreet an officer.
and yet i fear you, for you are fatal then when your eyes roll so.
didst thou not hear a noise ?
cleopatra— why should i think you can be mine ,  and true— though you in swearing shake the thronèd gods— who have been false to fulvia ?
wisdom !
what will you do?
what ,  will these hands ne'er be clean ?
that a monster should be such a natural !
my services to your lordship .
thanks ,  guildenstern and gentle rosencrantz .
do not for one repulse forgo the purpose that you resolved t'effect.
that would hang us, every mother's son.
this is the day which ,  in king edward’s time ,  i wished might fall on me when i was found false to his children and his wife’s allies .
dost grant me ,  hedgehog ?
no place indeed should murder sanctuarize; revenge should have no bounds .
decius ,  go tell them caesar will not come .
speak !
the desperate tempest hath so banged the turks ,  that their designment halts .
nay, then, i'll set those to you that can speak.
i have yet room for six scotches more .
what art thou ?
my lord of norfolk— here ,  most gracious liege .
dromio ,  go bid the servants spread for dinner .
no ,  it is casca ,  one incorporate to our attempts .
he's in his fit now, and does not talk after the wisest.
i ’gin to be aweary of the sun and wish the estate o’ the world were now undone .
and she's fair i love.
beggar that i am ,  i am even poor in thanks; but i thank you; and sure ,  dear friends ,  my thanks are too dear a halfpenny .
tis safer to be that which we destroy than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy .
i protest i take these wise men that crow so at these set kind of fools no better than the fools' zanies .
let him go and presently prefer his suit to caesar .
i pray you ,  husband ,  be not so disquiet .
i hope ,  for my brother’s justification ,  he wrote this but as an essay or taste of my virtue .
ha ?
the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to laertes before you fall to play .
these are now the fashion, and so berattle the common stages—so they call them—that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
i must and will have katherine to my wife .
tis two or three ,  my lord ,  that bring you word macduff is fled to england .
relent ,  sweet hermia—and ,  lysander ,  yield thy crazèd title to my certain right .
what ,  ariel !
and thence it is that i to your assistance do make love ,  masking the business from the common eye for sundry weighty reasons .
let us rather hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men bestride our downfall'n birthdom.
for i am almost ready to dissolve ,  hearing of this .
when caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
i say i love thee more than he can do .
look whether he have not crown'd dead cassius !
good sir ,  be a man; think every bearded fellow that's but yoked may draw with you .
be not acknown on't; i have use for it .
had i as many sons as i have hairs, i would not wish them to a fairer death.
i did so, and went further, which is now our point of second meeting.
portia ,  forgive me this enforcèd wrong ,  and in the hearing of these many friends i swear to thee ,  even by thine own fair eyes wherein i see myself—     mark you but that !
wilt break my heart ?
we will hear caesar's will.
nine or ten times i had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs.
indeed?
no .
by gis and by saint charity ,  alack ,  and fie for shame !
if cleopatra heard you ,  your reproof were well deserved of rashness .
what mean you ,  madam ?
i am glad on't; i desire no more delight ,  than to be under sail and gone to - night .
the passages of alleys ,  creeks ,  and narrow lands; a hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well ,  one that before the judgment carries poor souls to hell .
thus with a kiss i die .
i have said .
not i; unless the breath of heartsick groans ,  mist - like infold me from the search of eyes .
if thou dost, i shall never love thee after.
to have no screen between this part he played and him he played it for; he needs will be absolute milan .
i am weary of you .
she was here even now; she haunts me in every place.
warm o'my troth!
you are look'd for and call'd for, ask'd for and sought for, in the great chamber.
i do so ,  i confess it .
hast thou no care of me ?
you are merry, my lord.
i prithee—and i’ll pay thee bounteously— conceal me what i am ,  and be my aid for such disguise as haply shall become the form of my intent .
now for ourself ,  and for this time of meeting .
be not you ashamed to show ,  he’ll not shame to tell you what it means .
to get his place and to plume up my will in double knavery .
sure he hath killed his wife .
fly, my lord, fly.
to show our simple skill ,  that is the true beginning of our end .
these things are beyond all use ,  and i do fear them .
for certes these are people of the island ,  who ,  though they are of monstrous shape ,  yet note ,  their manners are more gentle - kind than of our human generation you shall find many ,  nay ,  almost any .
welcome .
alas, he's mad!
firm and irrevocable is my doom which i have passed upon her .
the foul fiend follows me !
now ,  my friendly knave ,  i thank thee .
good morrow ,  worthy caesar .
good .
i have no exquisite reason for ’t ,  but i have reason good enough .
so we grew together ,  like to a double cherry—seeming parted but yet an union in partition— two lovely berries molded on one stem;
we shall ,  my lord .
then must i think you would not have it so.
to make you answer truly to your name .
no die, but an ace, for him; for he is but one.
will you have some more sauce to your leek ?
are they good ?
o bottom ,  thou art changed !
you know not whether it was his wisdom or his fear .
go ,  you cot - quean ,  go .
where is this sight?
how now, my lord!
adieu .
fare thee well!
so tedious is this day as is the night before some festival to an impatient child that hath new robes and may not wear them.
that handkerchief thou speak'st of i found by fortune and did give my husband; for often with a solemn earnestness, more than indeed belong'd to such a trifle, he begg'd of me to steal it.
i will fetch him .
to make me bless'd ,  or cursed'st among men .
as i do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true; and we did think it writ down in our duty to let you know of it.
my precious queen ,  forbear ,  and give true evidence to his love which stands an honorable trial .
by heaven i charge thee speak !
ha !
anon.
wake when some vile thing is near .
how do you ,  malvolio ?
macduff is missing ,  and your noble son .
bring forth men - children only ,  for thy undaunted mettle should compose nothing but males .
in the wars .
humours!
bid every noise be still .
in love?
behold, i have a weapon; a better never did itself sustain upon a soldier's thigh.
where lodges he ?
what is it you will see ?
do you misdoubt this sword and these my wounds ?
as easy mayst thou the intrenchant air with thy keen sword impress as make me bleed .
then you shall be his surety.
to offend, and judge, are distinct offices, and of opposed natures.
they know by th’ height ,  the lowness ,  or the mean ,  if dearth or foison follow .
ourself will mingle with society and play the humble host.
this is signor antonio .
i am a fellow o' th' strangest mind i' th' world .
therefore ,  for fear of the worst ,  i pray thee ,  set a deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket; for ,  if the devil be within and that temptation without ,  i know he will choose it .
how came you thus recovered ?
you think i’ll weep ?
in the meantime i will draw a bill of properties such as our play wants .
fit to govern?
but what of that ?
there’s money for your pains .
bid her devise some means to come to shrift this afternoon; and there she shall at friar laurence’ cell be shriv'd and married.
fie on thee !
go fetch it ,  sister .
no more of that .
let him be caesar !
bless you ,  fair dame !
what a full fortune does the thicklips owe, if he can carry't thus!
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin!
help ,  ho !
i follow thee.
go ,  get thee hence ,  for i will not away .
edmund and i have talked ,  and more convenient is he for my hand than for your lady’s .
thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up my mortified spirit.
why then ,  ’tis good to be a post .
that you shall surely find him ,  lead to the sagittary the raisèd search ,  and there will i be with him .
and with my hand i seal my true heart’s love .
i think it is the weakness of mine eyes that shapes this monstrous apparition.
thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown .
gives me the lie i' the throat, as deep as to the lungs?
i never did offend you in my life; never loved cassio but with such general warranty of heaven as i might love.
read it ,  great caesar .
a norman .
i take my leave at once .
how is it with you ,  lady ?
who lies i’ the second chamber?
nurse— ah sir !
by the mass, 'tis morning; pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
will you go on?
o fortune, fortune!
why ,  if thou never wast at court ,  thou never saw’st good manners; if thou never saw’st good manners ,  then thy manners must be wicked ,  and wickedness is sin ,  and sin is damnation .
could not a worm ,  an adder ,  do so much ?
ay ,  sir ,  we are some of her trappings .
lady !
lesser than macbeth and greater .
o ,  reason not the need !
and so say i .
there's blood upon thy face .
nay then ,  let the devil wear black ,  for i'll have a suit of sables .
there was none such in the army of any sort .
zounds, that's fulsome!
call in my gentlewoman .
i am not valiant neither ,  but every puny whipster gets my sword .
then in my tent ,  cassius ,  enlarge your griefs ,  and i will give you audience .
that way the noise is.
by'r lakin, a parlous fear.
i heard thee say even now thou lik’st not that when cassio left my wife .
thou dost belie her ,  and thou art a devil .
why then ,  you left me , —o ,  the gods forbid ! — in earnest ,  shall i say ?
i was never curst; i have no gift at all in shrewishness; i am a right maid for my cowardice; let her not strike me .
pray now ,  rest yourself .
they shouted thrice .
the blow thou hadst shall make thy peace for moving me to rage ,  and i will boot thee with what gift beside thy modesty can beg .
i have much to do but to go hang my head all at one side and sing it like poor barbary .
but all the charms of love ,  salt cleopatra ,  soften thy wanned lip !
how answer you for yourselves ?
once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
what may she not ?
go to; say no more .
what of that ?
i will leave you now to your gossip - like humor .
how old art thou ?
no less ?
no .
sweet bassanio ,  my ships have all miscarried .
why doth it not then our eyelids sink ?
good night ,  good night !
this shall determine that .
this to your majesty; this to the queen.
this sight of death is as a bell that warns my old age to a sepulchre.
sir, i entreat you home with me to dinner.
i know him now.
not i, believe me.
sir ,  sir ,  sir— but thou must needs be sure my spirit and my place have in them power to make this bitter to thee .
well ,  petruchio ,  this has put me in heart .
search every acre in the high - grown field ,  and bring him to our eye .
i'll not expostulate with her ,  lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again .
let him do his spite.
our expectation hath this day an end .
did i not ,  fellow ?
no  “ master ,  ”  sir ,  but a poor man’s son .
some to decius' house ,  and some to casca's ,  some to ligarius' .
well, well; but, for mine own part, as i have set up my rest to run away, so i will not rest till i have run some ground.
bring in my lord .
to ’t ,  luxury ,  pell - mell—for i lack soldiers .
you are as good as a chorus ,  my lord .
o iago !
there’s matter in ’t indeed ,  if he be angry .
came he not home tonight ?
not yet.
believe me ,  no; i thank my fortune for it ,  my ventures are not in one bottom trusted ,  nor to one place; nor is my whole estate upon the fortune of this present year: therefore my merchandise makes me not sad .
o wretched fool, that livest to make thine honesty a vice!
at thy good heart's oppression .
god be wi' you .
i must needs after him ,  madam ,  with my letter .
here on his manly breast.
perpend .
ay ,  ay .
well ,  well ,  well .
beshrew me ,  if i would do such a wrong for the whole world .
and maidens call it  “ love - in - idleness .  ”  fetch me that flower .
heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
what are they that would speak with me ?
is he not here ?
will you go to them ?
will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
i hourly learn a doctrine of obedience ,  and would gladly look him i’ th’ face .
two things provided more: that for this favor he presently become a christian; the other ,  that he do record a gift here in the court ,  of all he dies possessed ,  unto his son lorenzo and his daughter .
three parts of him is ours already, and the man entire upon the next encounter yields him ours.
and thither will i straight to visit him .
my life is my foe's debt.
those that with haste will make a mighty fire begin it with weak straws .
i married them; and their stol'n marriage day was tybalt's doomsday, whose untimely death banish'd the new-made bridegroom from this city; for whom, and not for tybalt, juliet pin'd.
dost thou hear ,  my honest friend ?
come ,  come .
my lord bassanio ,  let him have the ring ,  let his deservings ,  and my love withal ,  be valued 'gainst your wife's commandment .
i had rather be a dog and bay the moon than such a roman .
o, i am slain!
have i, my lord?
why, get you gone!
my young remembrance cannot parallel a fellow to it.
foh!
what is't?
yet i insisted, yet you answer'd not, but with an angry wafture of your hand gave sign for me to leave you.
and wherefore doth lysander deny your love ,  so rich within his soul ,  and tender me ,  forsooth ,  affection ,  but by your setting on ,  by your consent ?
i am never merry when i hear sweet music.
oh ,  if it prove ,  tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love !
all may be well enough .
it is a high - wrought flood .
i am to pray you not to strain my speech to grosser issues nor to larger reach than to suspicion .
but ,  i’ll warrant you ,  when i say so ,  she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world .
what would my potent master ?
what should i say to you ?
but yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion .
i wish you well ,  and so i take my leave .
away ,  go !
but ,  i pray you ,  let none of your people stir me .
a play there is ,  my lord ,  some ten words long ,  which is as brief as i have known a play .
i warrant thee .
but it is true ,  without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk ,  that the good antonio ,  the honest antonio—oh ,  that i had a title good enough to keep his name company ! —  come ,  the full stop .
yet caesar shall go forth ,  for these predictions are to the world in general as to caesar .
and of the heat of the ginger .
no ,  and swears she never will .
i have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes; and but thou love me, let them find me here.
if the english had any apprehension ,  they would run away .
come ,  talk not of her .
to fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?
you charge me most unjustly .
i was not born to die on brutus' sword .
i thank thee, master.
i saw him not .
give me that boy, and i will go with thee.
so i hope .
nay, very pale.
for your life you durst not .
what sayst thou ?
i had rather have a handful or two of dried peas .
yes ,  cassius .
if not, i'll die your maid: to be your fellow you may deny me, but i'll be your servant whether you will or no.
to ariel] spirit ,  fine spirit ,  i—ii free [to ariel] spirit ,  fine spirit ,  i—ii free thee within two days for this .
i will tell you everything, right as it fell out.
my name is mary ,  sir .
to my sick soul, as sin's true nature is, each toy seems prologue to some great amiss.
o ,  it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig - pated fellow tear a passion to tatters ,  to very rags ,  to split the ears of the groundlings ,  who ,  for the most part ,  are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb - shows and noise .
for me ,  with sorrow i embrace my fortune .
and your reports have set the murder on.
thus we are agreed .
good night ,  good brother .
and, lips, o you the doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss a dateless bargain to engrossing death!
to the mariners] play the i pray now, keep below.
in this last tempest .
i know thee ,  roderigo .
does he rave ?
let me see .
there rust and let me die .
that 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
illo, ho, ho, my lord!
write me a prologue ,  and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm with our swords ,  and that pyramus is not killed indeed .
i’ll write straight to my sister to hold my very course .
but this eternal blazon must not be to ears of flesh and blood.
o, that a man might know the end of this day's business ere it come!
here’s a spirit .
that drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard; cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot even here ,  between the chaste unsmirched brows of my true mother .
will you ,  i pray ,  demand that demi - devil why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body ?
none can be called deformed but the unkind .
have all his ventures failed ?
shall we call in th' ambassador ,  my liege ?
let us go in together; and still your fingers on your lips ,  i pray .
oh ,  oh ,  oh !
as far ,  my lord ,  as will fill up the time ’twixt this and supper .
the attempt and not the deed confounds us.
even those you were wont to take such delight in ,  the tragedians of the city .
i'll be an auditor; an actor too perhaps, if i see cause.
is she not apt ?
i said ,  an elder soldier ,  not a better .
if the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality ,  the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most preposterous conclusions .
canst thou remember a time before we came unto this cell?
they must take it in sense that feel it .
i could tell you more news too .
the folly of this island!
brother ,  good night .
o ,  throw away the worser part of it ,  and live the purer with the other half ,  good night—but go not to my uncle's bed .
these hands do lack nobility that they strike a meaner than myself ,  since i myself have given myself the cause .
what is this castle called that stands hard by ?
those that with haste will make a mighty fire begin it with weak straws .
tell him i have moved my lord on his behalf ,  and hope all will be well .
nothing ,  good monsieur ,  but to help cavalery cobweb to scratch .
tis one iago ,  ancient to the general .
it cannot be but thou hast murdered him .
are our eyes our own ?
and, my gracious duke, be it so she will not here before your grace consent to marry with demetrius, i beg the ancient privilege of athens: as she is mine, i may dispose of her; which shall be either to this gentleman or to her death, according to our law immediately provided in that case.
his excellence did earn it ,  ere he had it .
silence !
be not fond to think that caesar bears such rebel blood that will be thaw'd from the true quality with that which melteth fools, i mean sweet words, low-crooked court'sies, and base spaniel-fawning.
where we lay ,  our chimneys were blown down and ,  as they say ,  lamentings heard i' th' air ,  strange screams of death ,  and prophesying with accents terrible of dire combustion and confused events new hatched to the woeful time .
shall i be married then to-morrow morning?
at thy request ,  monster ,  i will do reason ,  any reason . — come on ,  trinculo ,  let us sing .
go with me and see what i can show in this .
how now ,  old lad ?
use them after your own honor and dignity .
the air nimbly and sweetly recommends itself unto our gentle senses .
i am not i if there be such an  or those eyes shut that makes thee answer  “ ay .  ”  if he be slain ,  say  “ ay ,  ”  or if not ,   “ no .  ”  brief sounds determine of my weal or woe .
tis but an hour ago since it was nine ,  and after one hour more ’twill be eleven .
i would breed from hence occasions ,  and i shall ,  that i may speak .
use me but as your spaniel—spurn me ,  strike me ,  neglect me ,  lose me .
o heaven ,  that such companions thou'ldst unfold ,  and put in every honest hand a whip to lash the rascals naked through the world even from the east to the west !
and cassio kill'd?
if thou dost marry, i'll give thee this plague for thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny.
upon such sacrifices ,  my cordelia ,  the gods themselves throw incense .
was ever man so beaten ?
where did you die ?
what said he ?
that were a kind of bastard hope indeed .
i will deal in poison with thee ,  or in bastinado ,  or in steel .
a trade ,  sir ,  that ,  i hope ,  i may use with a safe con -  science ,  which is indeed ,  sir ,  a mender of bad soles .
o, i am spoil'd, undone by villains!
sweet soul ,  let’s in ,  and there expect their coming .
you must not put another scandal on him ,  that he is open to incontinency .
what, ho!
look ,  if my gentle love be not raised up !
that did i never hear .
ay ,  boy ,  ready .
i warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing .
should i not say ,  hath a dog money ?
with no less religion than if thou wert indeed my rosalind .
i should have known no less .
there be that can rule naples as well as he that sleeps, lords that can prate as amply and unnecessarily as this gonzalo; i myself could make a chough of as deep chat.
here's a knocking indeed !
here come two noble beasts in ,  a man and a lion .
i beseech you ,  what manner of man is he ?
where have you this ?
what say you ,  hermia ?
o my fair warrior!
go to ,  woman ,  throw your vile guesses in the devil’s teeth from whence you have them .
say that she frown; i’ll say she looks as clear as morning roses newly washed with dew .
that's all one; you shall play it in a mask ,  and you may speak as small as you will .
where be these enemies?
tomorrow ,  and tomorrow ,  and tomorrow ,  creeps in this petty pace from day to day to the last syllable of recorded time ,  and all our yesterdays have lighted fools the way to dusty death .
widow?
amen !
now good digestion wait on appetite ,  and health on both !
you do assist the storm .
sometimes she driveth o'er a soldier's neck ,  and then dreams he of cutting foreign throats ,  of breaches ,  ambuscadoes ,  spanish blades ,  of healths five fathom deep; and then anon drums in his ear ,  at which he starts and wakes ,  and being thus frighted ,  swears a prayer or two and sleeps again .
news ,  lads !
follow me .
get me a taper in my study, lucius.
what if i had said i had seen him do you wrong?
your wife would give you little thanks for that ,  if she were by ,  to hear you make the offer .
where may we set our horses ?
tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst ,  thou hadst been poor - john .
are you good men and true ?
come ,  my hippolyta; what cheer ,  my love ?
i'll court his favours.
shall't be tonight at supper?
him and his worth and our great need of him you have right well conceited .
how sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank !
a beast ,  no more .
and, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw millions of acres on us, till our ground, singeing his pate against the burning zone, make ossa like a wart!
with good acceptance of his majesty— save that there was not time enough to hear ,  as i perceived his grace would fain have done ,  the severals and unhidden passages of his true titles to some certain dukedoms ,  and generally to the crown and seat of france ,  derived from edward ,  his great - grandfather .
not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh jew, thou mak'st thy knife keen; but no metal can, no, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness of thy sharp envy.
so please you, let me now be left alone, and let the nurse this night sit up with you; for i am sure you have your hands full all in this so sudden business.
i am sorry that i am deceived in him .
fool ,  do not flatter .
the villain shall not ’scape .
tis certain then for cyprus .
i am provided of a torch - bearer .
oh ,  look ,  sir ,  look ,  sir !
let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down where i left reading?
do you confess so much ?
o misery !
and cassius too.
that  “ may be ”  must be ,  love ,  on thursday next .
think you but that i know our state secure ,  i would be so triumphant as i am ?
what noise is that ?
now is it rome indeed ,  and room enough ,  when there is in it but one only man .
a most courteous exposition .
for hamlet and the trifling of his favor ,  hold it a fashion and a toy in blood ,  a violet in the youth of primy nature ,  forward ,  not permanent ,  sweet ,  not lasting ,  the perfume and suppliance of a minute .
tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way ran he ?
so shalt thou show me friendship.
i should be wise; for honesty's a fool ,  and loses that it works for .
faith, i must; she'll rail i' the street else.
o wherefore, nature, didst thou lions frame?
ye men of cyprus, let her have your knees.
oh ,  by whom ?
prithee bear some charity to my wit .
now sir ,  this granted—as it is a most pregnant and unforced position—who stands so eminent in the degree of this fortune as cassio does ?
under love’s heavy burden do i sink .
so please you .
i think so ,  charmian .
and so ,  with no money at all and a little more wit ,  return again to venice .
he was furnished like a hunter .
if she had been blest, she would never have loved the moor.
if you deny me ,  fie upon your law— there is no force in the decrees of venice .
come ,  my coach !
mobled queen’ is good.
therefore ,  merchant ,  i’ll limit thee this day to seek thy life by beneficial help .
then i well perceive you are not nigh.
and for mine own part ,  i durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving the bad air .
and so she did .
not mad ,  but bound more than a madman is; shut up in prison ,  kept without my food ,  whipp'd and tormented and– god - eve ,  good fellow .
what heir of york is there alive but we ?
tis double wrong to truant with your bed and let her read it in thy looks at board .
here comes his body ,  mourned by mark antony ,  who ,  though he had no hand in his death ,  shall receive the benefit of his dying—a place in the commonwealth—as which of you shall not ?
was the hope drunk wherein you dress'd yourself?
i’ll in to counsel them .
it were a tedious difficulty, i think, to bring them to that prospect.
art thou not romeo ,  and a montague ?
did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
unless philosophy can make a juliet ,  displant a town ,  reverse a prince's doom ,  it helps not ,  it prevails not .
freedom high-day!
i see the jewel best enamelèd will lose his beauty .
so many guests invite as here are writ.
ha ,  they pluck out mine eyes !
i am no fee’d post ,  lady .
a goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and dungeons, denmark being one o' the worst.
it is concluded .
no more amazement .
orsino .
when comes such another?
pray you put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
will you deny me now ?
henry the sixth ,  in infant bands crowned king of france and england ,  did this king succeed ,  whose state so many had the managing that they lost france and made his england bleed ,  which oft our stage hath shown .
your royal father’s murdered .
noses ,  ears ,  and lips .
is't known who did this more than bloody deed ?
it is as easy as lying .
he has almost supped .
let every soldier hew him down a bough and bear ’t before him .
i will presently go learn their day of marriage .
have you any further trade with us?
but in my terms of honour i stand aloof, and will no reconcilement till by some elder masters of known honour i have a voice and precedent of peace to keep my name ungor'd.
a plague upon you ,  murderers ,  traitors all !
nay ,  by 'r lady ,  that i think he cannot .
come not near casca .
when i do name him ,  let it be thy part to praise him more than ever man did merit .
i must take out the work?
but not ,  as i am ,  royal .
what's the disease he means?
and come yourselves ,  and bring messala with you ,  immediately to us .
i made no such report .
hear me ,  recreant !
apothecary!
o ,  teach me how you look and with what art you sway the motion of demetrius' heart .
even so .
look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
why, i can buy me twenty at any market.
to a nunnery ,  go .
call in the messengers .
most worthy gentleman ,  i ,  and my friend ,  have by your wisdom been this day acquitted of grievous penalties; in lieu whereof ,  three thousand ducats ,  due unto the jew ,  we freely cope your courteous pains withal .
woo’t tear thyself ?
sweet desdemona !
a daniel come to judgment!
it must be by his death, and, for my part, i know no personal cause to spurn at him, but for the general.
i cannot wish the fault undone ,  the issue of it being so proper .
who hath made this havoc with them ?
ay ,  sir ,  the sergeant of the band; he that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band; one that thinks a man always going to bed and says  “ god give you good rest .  ”   well ,  sir ,  there rest in your foolery .
let her witness it .
madam, good night; i humbly thank your ladyship.
get you a place.
then ’tis most like the sovereignty will fall upon macbeth .
who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath .  ”  must give—for what ?
hold !
ay ,  my lord .
is ’t not denounced against us ?
he is about it: the doors are open, and the surfeited grooms do mock their charge with snores: i have drugg'd their possets, that death and nature do contend about them, whether they live or die.
come on .
and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than their even christian .
thou dost not mark me.
in his own grace he doth exalt himself more than in your addition .
eight score eight hours ?
thou villain ,  what sayest thou ?
sir ,  she can turn ,  and turn ,  and yet go on ,  and turn again .
my more particular ,  and that which most with you should safe my going ,  is fulvia’s death .
if she come in ,  she'll sure speak to my wife .
on their sustaining garments not a blemish ,  but fresher than before .
o spite of spites !
have patience, gentle friends, i must not read it; it is not meet you know how caesar loved you.
peace ,  you were best .
i must believe my master; else ,  i promise you ,  i should be arguing still upon that doubt .
his word is more than the miraculous harp .
they are his shards ,  and he
am i like such a fellow?
what is your will?
you keep by land the legions and the horse whole ,  do you not ?
what, with a torch?
who cannot want the thought ,  how monstrous it was for malcolm and for donalbain to kill their gracious father ?
go to ,  away .
out .
prithee, listen well.
what should we do?
fool !
thy case ,  dear friend ,  shall be my precedent .
i think it is the weakness of mine eyes that shapes this monstrous apparition .
let it alone ,  thou fool; it is but trash .
o sir ,  fly this place .
she is dead .
the king mine uncle is to blame for it .
meseemeth good that with some little train forthwith from ludlow the young prince be fet hither to london ,  to be crowned our king .
did he ask for me ?
o dainty duck!
and did not she herself revile me there ?
be this the whetstone of your sword .
what then ?
by my faith ,  you have great reason to be sad .
i think he brings the money .
i was enforced to send it after him .
why, look you, how you storm!
the nephew to old norway, fortinbras.
in sooth ,  i know not why i am so sad .
why ,  what is tybalt ?
we have not yet set down this day of triumph .
here they’ll be ,  man .
nay ,  i prithee now ,  with most petitionary vehemence ,  tell me who it is .
i'll put a girdle round about the earth in forty minutes.
how does thy honor ?
dear sir ,  forbear !
i am very proud ,  revengeful ,  ambitious ,  with more offences at my beck than i have thoughts to put them in ,  imagination to give them shape ,  or time to act them in .
he’s that he is .
it waves me still .
ay ,  sir ,  i thank god .
all this can i truly deliver .
against my soul’s pure truth why labour you to make it wander in an unknown field ?
the quality of nothing hath not such need to hide itself .
oh ,  what authority and show of truth can cunning sin cover itself withal !
they that stand high have many blasts to shake them ,  and if they fall ,  they dash themselves to pieces .
that must we also .
by my troth ,  nerissa ,  my little body is aweary of this great world .
ah, rosencrantz!
i am one ,  sir ,  that comes to tell you your daughter and the moor are now making the beast with two backs .
conceit in weakest bodies strongest works .
no boasting like a fool; this deed i'll do before this purpose cool.
lucentio !
o heavy deed !
thy evil spirit ,  brutus .
it is the right butter - women’s rank to market .
alas iago ,  what shall i do to win my lord again ?
i'll send my prayers with him .
beware of entrance to a quarrel; but being in, bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
in troth, i think i should, and undo't when i had done.
no masque tonight .
the cockerel.
of all men else i have avoided thee.
give him a halter: i am famished in his service; you may tell every finger i have with my ribs .
in youth when i did love, did love, methought it was very sweet; to contract—o—the time for—a—my behove, o, methought there—a—was nothing—a meet.
come ,  sirs .
why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
what if a man bring him a hundred pound or two to make merry withal ?
they bore him barefac'd on the bier (hey non nony, nony, hey nony) and on his grave rain'd many a tear.
indeed ,  i never shall be satisfied with romeo ,  till i behold him—dead— is my poor heart for a kinsman vexed .
fool ,  i say !
come ,  go with me .
art thou good at these kickshawses ,  knight ?
here's a skull ,  now .
silver .
the little dogs and all ,  tray ,  blanch ,  and sweetheart—see ,  they bark at me .
sola ,  sola !
marry ,  a perfumed one .
certainly, my conscience will serve me to run from this jew, my master.
i have heard her swear ’t .
not a whit .
i humbly thank you; well ,  well ,  well .
we'll play with them, the first boy for a thousand ducats.
with him is gratiano gone along .
o sirs ,  consider: they that set you on to do this deed will hate you for the deed .
a flatterer's would not ,  though they do appear as huge as high olympus .
how does my good lord hamlet ?
from me ,  whose love was of that dignity that it went hand in hand even with the vow i made to her in marriage ,  and to decline upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor to those of mine .
may i speak with antonio ?
well ,  well ,  thou hast a careful father ,  child .
he dreams .
o ,  pardon me ,  thou bleeding piece of earth ,  that i am meek and gentle with these butchers !
i shall be saved by my husband .
o piteous spectacle !
i spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack .
how now ,  fellow ?
i cannot speak of this.
with duty and desire we follow you .
bring it hither to me in the orchard .
to both their deaths shalt thou be accessory .
a most manly wit ,  margaret ,  it will not hurt a woman .
gratiano !
my resolution and my hands i’ll trust ,  none about caesar .
if thou canst cuckold him, thou dost thyself a pleasure, me a sport.
out and alas ,  that was my lady’s voice .
would i were so too .
and mine ,  a hundred and forty .
let romeo hence in haste ,  else ,  when he is found ,  that hour is his last .
macbeth doth come.
for if but once thou show me thy grey light, i'll find demetrius, and revenge this spite.
i am in blood stepp'd in so far that ,  should i wade no more ,  returning were as tedious as go o'er .
ay ,  sir .
why call you me  “ love ”  ?
what is he that shall buy his flock and pasture ?
i like thy wit well, in good faith.
shall rome stand under one man's awe?
madam ,  if you could find out but a man to bear a poison ,  i would temper it ,  that romeo should ,  upon receipt thereof ,  soon sleep in quiet .
i pray you ,  rise .
never hamlet.
thy slander hath gone through and through her heart ,  and she lies buried with her ancestors ,  oh ,  in a tomb where never scandal slept save this of hers ,  framed by thy villainy .
know then i came before you here a man prepared to take this offer ,  but mark antony put me to some impatience .
there thou mightst behold the great image of authority: a dog’s obeyed in office .
my fate cries out ,  and makes each petty artery in this body as hardy as the nemean lion's nerve .
there is no vice so simple ,  but assumes some mark of virtue on his outward parts .
and the creature run from the cur ?
what ,  must i come to you with five and twenty ,  regan ?
now ,  in good sadness ,  son petruchio ,  i think thou hast the veriest shrew of all .
for falstaff ,  he is dead ,  and we must earn therefore .
out upon you !
o brother montague, give me thy hand.
madam, i swear i use no art at all.
where art thou, proud demetrius?
as i descended?
it is my will; the which if thou respect, show a fair presence and put off these frowns, an ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
not to be abed after midnight is to be up betimes ,  and  nay ,  my troth ,  i know not .
what needed ,  then ,  that terrible dispatch of it into your pocket ?
and when goes hence ?
you shall not write my praise .
tear him, tear him!
what ,  drawn ,  and talk of peace ?
i, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated to closeness and the bettering of my mind with that which, but by being so retired, o'er prized all popular rate, in my false brother awakened an evil nature; and my trust, like a good parent, did beget of him a falsehood, in its contrary as great as my trust was, which had indeed no limit, a confidence sans bound.
i cannot live to hear the news from england .
methinks you are too much of late i' th' frown .
lysander's love, that would not let him bide, fair helena, who more engilds the night than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light.
nay ,  that's certain .
you might have rhymed .
if that may be, then all is well.
hear you aught of her in yours ?
what, juliet!
i would fain learn to lie .
are you so hasty now ?
no ,  my lord; rather with choler .
young edward lives; think now what i would speak .
o ,  what a beast was i to chide at him !
favors ?
i'll fight, ’til from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
why do you speak so faintly ?
notable pirate !
i would not change it .
i have done no harm .
these are gracious drops.
very well took ,  i' faith ,  wisely ,  wisely .
thou hadst ,  and more ,  miranda .
never excuse—for when the players are all dead ,  there needs none to be blamed .
the strangeness of your story put heaviness in me .
what are you then determined to do ?
nay ,  very pale .
tis his own blame .
infirm of purpose !
besides ,  our hands are hard .
come ,  bring me where they are .
you do advance your cunning more and more .
abhor it ,  fear it ,  do not enter it .
my books and instruments shall be my company ,  on them to look and practice by myself .
what shall i swear by ?
and duncan's horses—a thing most strange and certain— beauteous and swift ,  the minions of their race ,  turn'd wild in nature ,  broke their stalls ,  flung out ,  contending ’gainst obedience ,  as they would make war with mankind .
masters, the duke is coming from the temple; and there is two or three lords and ladies more married.
first, forward to the temple; after dinner your hazard shall be made.
if he love caesar, all that he can do is to himself, take thought and die for caesar.
we’ll feast each other ere we part ,  and let’s draw lots who shall begin .
get you gone, and at the pit of acheron meet me i’ the morning.
soldiers ,  sir .
who bare my letter, then, to romeo?
tide life ,  tide death ,  i come without delay .
peace ,  you mumbling fool !
a kind good night to all !
the law ,  that threat'ned death ,  becomes thy friend and turns it to exile .
truly ,  and i hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow .
was not count john here at supper ?
then i'll be brief.
thieves !
what o'clock tomorrow shall i send to thee ?
last night of all, when yond same star that's westward from the pole had made his course to illume that part of heaven where now it burns, marcellus and myself, the bell then beating one— peace!
torments will ope your lips .
or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
come on ,  assay .
give him a halter .
draw thy sword—one stroke shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest ,  and i the king shall love thee .
i think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them together .
he knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo— by the bad voice .
what are they ,  i beseech your ladyship ?
is your name shylock ?
now i feed myself with most delicious poison .
here ,  lord bassanio; swear to keep this ring .
i'll devil - porter it no further .
your sword upon a woman ?
i think our country sinks beneath the yoke; it weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash is added to her wounds.
aside] honest lord, [aside] honest lord, thou hast said well, for some of you there present are worse than devils.
thou 'lt be afraid to hear it .
he thinks ,  being twenty times of better fortune ,  he is twenty men to one .
there be land rats and water rats ,  water thieves and land thieves—i mean pirates—and then there is the peril of waters ,  winds ,  and rocks .
will it not be received, when we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two of his own chamber, and used their very daggers, that they have done't?
you ,  mistress ,  that have the office opposite to saint peter ,  and keep the gate of hell !
therefore this project
ten masts at each make not the altitude which thou hast perpendicularly fell .
for that you must but say i could not help it .
have you delivered to her our decree ?
to ariel] thou shalt be free [to ariel] thou shalt be free as mountain winds; but then exactly do all points of my command .
let us be jocund .
perchance he will not mind me.
well ,  come ,  my kate .
but ’tis strange .
tush ,  i will stir about ,  and all things shall be well ,  i warrant thee ,  wife .
come ,  good sir ,  will you show me to this house ?
who has put in?
what a plague means my niece ,  to take the death of her brother thus ?
i would forget it fain ,  but oh ,  it presses to my memory ,  like damnèd guilty deeds to sinners' minds .
good my lord ,  give me thy favor still .
patience ,  good sir .
why ,  we have galls ,  and though we have some grace ,  yet have we some revenge .
believe me ,  lord ,  i think he cannot choose .
safer than trust too far .
so tell them ,  publius .
o woeful day !
her eyes are fierce ,  but thine do comfort and not burn .
i'll bear him no more sticks ,  but follow thee ,  thou wondrous man .
come ,  menas .
therefore take heed how you impawn our person ,  how you awake our sleeping sword of war .
your loves ,  as mine to you .
believe me ,  i cannot .
am i a married man or a bachelor ?
wherein the toged consuls can propose as masterly as he .
how fares our cousin hamlet ?
gregory ,  on my word ,  we'll not carry coals .
half a share .
yes, by heaven!
but do not stain the even virtue of our enterprise ,  nor th' insuppressive mettle of our spirits ,  to think that or our cause or our performance did need an oath ,  when every drop of blood that every roman bears—and nobly bears— is guilty of a several bastardy if he do break the smallest particle of any promise that hath passed from him .
yea, is the worst well?
exchange forgiveness with me, noble hamlet.
there are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered .
lord mayor ,  the reason we have sent— look back !
your reason?
and all my armor laid into my tent ?
aside] they vanished strangely.
the sleeping and the dead are but as pictures .
i will go seek the king .
safe, antony, brutus is safe enough.
she is persuaded i will marry her, out of her own love and flattery, not out of my promise.
there is some ill a - brewing towards my rest ,  for i did dream of money bags tonight .
go and say we purpose her no shame .
murder most foul ,  as in the best it is; but this most foul ,  strange ,  and unnatural .
did ever dragon keep so fair a cave ?
and yet complainest thou of obstruction ?
so the poor third is up ,  till death enlarge his confine .
yea ,  from the table of my memory i’ll wipe away all trivial fond records ,  all saws of books ,  all forms ,  all pressures past that youth and observation copied there ,  and thy commandment all alone shall live within the book and volume of my brain ,  unmixed with baser matter .
lady ,  come from that nest of death ,  contagion ,  and unnatural sleep .
are you so gospell'd ,  to pray for this good man and for his issue ,  whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave and beggar'd yours for ever ?
the what?
ay ,  what else ?
i pray thee ,  overname them .
ay ,  millstones ,  as he lessoned us to weep .
answer to that .
what if i strayed no further ,  but chose here ? — let's see once more this saying grav'd in gold: who chooseth me ,  shall gain what many men desire .
if i may trust the flattering truth of sleep, my dreams presage some joyful news at hand.
my fool usurps my body .
who's there?
come hither ,  man .
to ,  to ,  to— to murder me ?
but screw your courage to the sticking - place ,  and we'll not fail .
fury, fury!
whose do you think it was ?
silence!
call you me daughter ?
it fits when such a villain is a guest .
sweet friends ,  your patience for my long abode: not i ,  but my affairs ,  have made you wait: when you shall please to play the thieves for wives ,  i'll watch as long for you then . —approach; here dwells my father jew . —ho !
the tyrant's people on both sides do fight, the noble thanes do bravely in the war; the day almost itself professes yours, and little is to do.
no more, i pray thee; i am half afeard, thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee, thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him.
here is for thy pains.
i mean ,  sir ,  for his weapon .
with another ,  for tying his new shoes with old ribbon ?
do not then walk too open .
thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up thine own life's means!
sir ,  he is with caesar .
come ,  your answer in broken music ,  for thy voice is music and thy english broken .
and by how much she strives to do him good she shall undo her credit with the moor .
villain ,  thou didst deny the gold’s receipt and told’st me of a mistress and a dinner ,  for which ,  i hope ,  thou felt’st i was displeased .
to the spirits] well done !
the old priest at saint luke’s church is at your command at all hours .
who calls?
ay ,  let her rot ,  and perish ,  and be damned tonight ,  for she shall not live .
fill ,  lucius ,  till the wine o'erswell the cup; i cannot drink too much of brutus' love .
poor ropes ,  you are beguil'd ,  both you and i ,  for romeo is exil'd .
make the rope of his destiny our cable, for our own doth little advantage.
help, help!
it is a branch and parcel of mine oath ,  a charitable duty of my order .
most heartily i do beseech the court to give the judgment .
that our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  drenched in the sea ,  hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses ,  being rather new - dyed than stained with salt water .
you shall, mark antony.
where's satisfaction ?
an ’t be any way ,  it must be with valor ,  for policy i hate .
look what i have.
oh ,  heavy ignorance !
teach it but how ,  and thou shalt see how apt it is to learn any hard lesson that may do thee good .
will they not say afterwards ,  if they should grow themselves to common players—as it is most like ,  if their means are no better—their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession ?
i say ,  it is not lost .
tybalt ,  my cousin !
hang thee ,  young baggage !
help ,  ho ,  help !
tell me .
you are three men of sin ,  whom destiny ,  that hath to instrument this lower world and what is in't ,  the never - surfeited sea hath caused to belch up you ,  and on this island where man doth not inhabit ,  you ’mongst men being most unfit to live .
now ,  whether it be bestial oblivion ,  or some craven scruple of thinking too precisely on the event— a thought which ,  quarter'd ,  hath but one part wisdom and ever three parts coward—i do not know why yet i live to say 'this thing's to do , ' sith i have cause ,  and will ,  and strength ,  and means to do't .
from forth the fatal loins of these two foes a pair of star - crossed lovers take their life ,  whose misadventured piteous overthrows doth with their death bury their parents' strife .
addicted so and so . — ”  and there put on him what forgeries you please .
bestow it at your pleasure ,  and believe caesar’s no merchant ,  to make prize with you of things that merchants sold .
kind and dear princess !
set on your foot, and with a heart new-fired i follow you, to do i know not what; but it sufficeth that brutus leads me on.
speak'st thou this from thy heart?
what !
go make thee ready; our letters are prepared .
quarrel, sir?
my lord ,  good morrow .
good cheer, antonio!
if thou dost find him tractable to us ,  encourage him and show him all our reasons .
the foul fiend bites my back .
o deadly sin!
what is't that moves your highness?
quick, quick; fear nothing; i'll be at thy elbow.
fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds in ranks and squadrons and right form of war ,  which drizzled blood upon the capitol .
you received no gold ?
here comes ancient pistol and his wife .
we’ll know all our fortunes .
very well.
iago !
since thou dost give me pains ,  let me remember thee what thou hast promised ,  which is not yet performed me .
pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends, for my heart speaks they are welcome.
well ,  to our work alive .
he speaks home, madam.
i wish it might ,  for now i am your fool .
you shall not seal to such a bond for me; i'll rather dwell in my necessity.
ay ,  indeed .
one is too poor ,  too weak for my revenge .
is't so, indeed?
wolvish-ravening lamb!
most kind messenger ,  say to great caesar this in deputation: i kiss his conqu’ring hand .
death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
the gods do this in shame of cowardice .
hark you, sir.
if in naples i should report this now ,  would they believe me’ if i should say i saw such islanders ?
if that this simple syllogism will serve ,  so .
you were best to call them generally ,  man by man ,  according to the scrip .
i prithee ,  boy ,  run to the senate house .
is brutus sick ?
send for the man, and ask him.
give me your hand .
but my revenge will come.
but, look you, cassius, the angry spot doth glow on caesar's brow, and all the rest look like a chidden train: calpurnia's cheek is pale, and cicero looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes as we have seen him in the capitol, being cross'd in conference by some senators.
look ,  my lord ,  it comes !
mercy but murders ,  pardoning those that kill .
music ,  moody food of us that trade in love .
why ,  sir ,  a carpenter .
that he hath usèd thee .
if you swear ,  my lord ,  you shall not be forsworn .
think of it .
look you for any other issue ?
in such a time as this it is not meet that every nice offense should bear his comment .
away ,  and let me die .
art thou aught else but place ,  degree ,  and form ,  creating awe and fear in other men ,  wherein thou art less happy ,  being feared ,  than they in fearing ?
in the street i met him ,  and in his company that gentleman .
what ?
o monstrous world !
why ?
was not that letter from fair jessica ?
my lord of orléans ,  and my lord high constable ,  you talk of horse and armor ?
what, strike his wife!
you have heard him swear downright he was .
let that appear hereafter ,  and aim better at me by that i now will manifest .
i am peppered, i warrant, for this world.
that is the very defect of the matter ,  sir .
call him in .
now will i to the chink ,  to spy an i can hear my thisbe’s face .
what noise is here?
your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to the doctor; for ,  me to put him to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far more choler .
what ,  no more ?
soft, sir!
this bud of love ,  by summer's ripening breath ,  may prove a beauteous flower when next we meet .
oh ,  most lame and impotent conclusion !
there’s hell ,  there’s darkness ,  there’s the sulfurous pit— burning ,  scalding ,  stench ,  consumption !
you may be rightly just ,  whatever i shall think .
tut ,  she’s a lamb ,  a dove ,  a fool to him !
how is it ,  general ?
i’ll be your purse - bearer and leave you for an hour .
my lord?
will she go now to bed ?
indeed ,  my lord ,  it followed hard upon .
why i should fear i know not, since guiltiness i know not; but yet i feel i fear.
come ,  thou day in night ,  for thou wilt lie upon the wings of night whiter than new snow upon a raven’s back .
o gods, ye gods!
o heat, dry up my brains!
give me thy hand ,  roderigo .
that handkerchief did an egyptian to my mother give; she was a charmer ,  and could almost read the thoughts of people .
o wife ,  look how our daughter bleeds !
provoke him ,  that he may; for even out of that will i cause these of cyprus to mutiny ,  whose qual -  ification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of cassio .
for hecuba!
marry ,  i saw your niece do more favors to the count’s servingman than ever she bestowed upon me .
ay ,  truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness .
look ,  here it is .
i have heard that julius caesar grew fat with feasting there .
she told her ,  while she kept it ,  'twould make her amiable and subdue my father entirely to her love ,  but if she lost it or made a gift of it ,  my father's eye should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt after new fancies .
it must be thought on .
i must be gone .
i have been in such a pickle since i saw you last that, i fear me, will never out of my bones.
tie up the libertine in a field of feasts ,  keep his brain fuming .
metellus cimber ?
i will catechize the world for him; that is, make ques- tions and by them answer.
give me your hand first .
if thou hast slain lysander in his sleep ,  being o'er shoes in blood ,  plunge in the deep ,  and kill me too .
i will not charm my tongue; i am bound to speak .
approach the chamber ,  and destroy your sight with a new gorgon .
i'll take my leave of the jew in the twinkling of an eye .
what dost thou say?
speak ,  speak .
the folly of this island .
that’s as much as to say ,  the sweet youth’s in love .
my children too ?
when were you wont to use my sister thus ?
macbeth doth come .
alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
o proper stuff !
my excellent good friends !
dismiss me .
or ill - beseeming beast in seeming both !
twenty crowns .
most sincerely .
no more o’ that, my lord, no more o’ that.
i have slept, my lord, already.
stand there !
how does thy honour?
if it will please you to show us so much gentry and good will as to expend your time with us awhile for the supply and profit of our hope ,  your visitation shall receive such thanks as fits a king's remembrance .
all?
well ,  go to ,  very well .
before my body i throw my warlike shield !
you'll not endure him ?
it is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will.
come on then .
utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl, for here we need it not.
for ,  hark you ,  tybalt being slain so late ,  it may be thought we held him carelessly ,  being our kinsman ,  if we revel much .
tend to the master's whistle !
and begged he pardon ?
but one cup; i'll drink for you.
for there is not a more fearful wildfowl than your lion living .
hath she forsook so many noble matches ,  her father and her country and her friends ,  to be call'd whore ?
to what end ?
now he begins the story .
good name in man and woman ,  dear my lord ,  is the immediate jewel of their souls .
his son is elder, sir; his son is thirty.
let her not walk i' th' sun.
another yet!
thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime, the pitfall nor the gin.
what effects ,  my lord ?
o ,  had the gods done so ,  i had not now worthily termed them merciless to us .
kent ,  on thy life ,  no more .
laertes ,  i must commune with your grief ,  or you deny me right .
hold ,  then .
away !
where is your servant caius ?
are you fair ?
if i had ,  my weapon should quickly have been out ,  i warrant you .
yes, a dozen, and as many to the vantage as would store the world they played for.
it had been so with us, had we been there.
that he hath a neighbourly charity in him; for he borrowed a box of the ear of the englishman ,  and swore he would pay him again when he was able: i think the frenchman became his surety ,  and sealed under for another .
would it not make one weep ?
ay ,  good my lord .
never so rich a gem was set in worse than gold .
when that the poor have cried ,  caesar hath wept .
let me see her .
is it not like the king?
see ,  caesar !
go to him ,  madam ,  speak to him .
and for three months .
skipper ,  stand back .
dark night ,  that from the eye his function takes ,  the ear more quick of apprehension makes .
oh ,  you are sick of self - love ,  malvolio ,  and taste with a distempered appetite .
tis new to thee.
yet here she is allowed her virgin crants ,  her maiden strewments ,  and the bringing home of bell and burial .
be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your tutor.
now he goes ,  with no less presence ,  but with much more love ,  than young alcides ,  when he did redeem the virgin tribute paid by howling troy to the sea - monster: i stand for sacrifice ,  the rest aloof are the dardanian wives ,  with bleared visages ,  come forth to view the issue of the exploit .
where art thou now?
ay ,  the heads of the maids ,  or their maidenheads .
how shall we find the concord of this discord ?
as i learned ,  the night before there was no purpose in them of this remove .
come ,  come ,  you talk .
i know where i will wear this dagger then .
the grey-ey'd morn smiles on the frowning night, check'ring the eastern clouds with streaks of light; and flecked darkness like a drunkard reels from forth day's path and titan's fiery wheels.
ancient, what makes he here?
then say at once what is it thou requests .
beat them down!
come on then; down ,  and swear .
just opposite to what thou justly seem'st— a damned saint, an honourable villain!
these couchings and these lowly courtesies might fire the blood of ordinary men and turn preordinance and first decree into the law of children.
monster, you fairy, which you say is a harmless fairy, has done little better than played the jack with us.
he is in earnest .
i fear our purpose is discovered.
what hast thou there?
mistrust of good success hath done this deed.
this shall determine that.
let the door be lock'd.
upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit ,  for ’tis a throne where honor may be crowned .
good lads ,  how do you both ?
tis not needed yet .
my lord ,  i have .
where do i dwell?
your lady mother is coming to your chamber .
pray you, let cassio be received again.
upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit; for 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd sole monarch of the universal earth.
be patient ,  for the world is broad and wide .
o notable strumpet !
how art thou out of breath when thou hast breath to say to me that thou art out of breath ?
uninhabitable ,  and almost inaccessible— [to antonio] yet— [to antonio] yet— yet— [to sebastian] he could not miss't .
not romeo, prince; he was mercutio's friend; his fault concludes but what the law should end, the life of tybalt.
you gentle romans— peace ,  ho !
this is his second fit .
i dreamt tonight that i did feast with caesar, and things unluckily charge my fantasy.
o, treble woe fall ten times treble on that cursed head whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense deprived thee of!
no, indeed, are they not.
will he bring his power ?
never fear that .
you'll not endure him?
it is ,  it is !
come with my lady hither .
come ,  desdemona ,  i have but an hour of love ,  of worldly matter and direction ,  to spend with thee .
why ,  what art thou ?
why ,  to keep one’s eyes of either side ’s nose ,  that what a man cannot smell out ,  he may spy into .
i do desire we may be better strangers .
there’s money for thee .
night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
this moral ties me over to time and a hot summer .
is ’t possible ?
this is the monkey's own giving out .
hang not on my garments .
the hearts of old gave hands; but our new heraldry is hands ,  not hearts .
come on!
who's there?
go ,  be gone .
ah ,  cut my lace asunder ,  that my pent heart may have some scope to beat ,  or else i swoon with this dead - killing news !
commend me to your daughter .
let but the commons hear this testament— which ,  pardon me ,  i do not mean to read— and they would go and kiss dead caesar's wounds and dip their napkins in his sacred blood ,  yea ,  beg a hair of him for memory ,  and ,  dying ,  mention it within their wills ,  bequeathing it as a rich legacy unto their issue .
support him by the arm .
this doth betoken the corse they follow did with desperate hand fordo it own life .
discern’st thou aught in that ?
she stood and spake .
if his cause be wrong ,  our obedience to the king wipes the crime of it out of us .
why ,  would not you ?
in caesar’s fleet are those that often have ’gainst pompey fought .
what is your will?
think of this, good peers, but as a thing of custom.
who is it in the press that calls on me?
then bid adieu to me ,  and say the tears belong to egypt .
i should have been a sore one then .
go with me to the vault .
enjoy thy plainness .
the gods forbid !
not cassio kill'd!
gracious olivia— what do you say ,  cesario ? —good my lord— my lord would speak .
find thou the means ,  and i'll find such a man .
is he arrayed ?
hear me ,  good brother— under your pardon .
the tender prince would fain have come with me to meet your grace ,  but by his mother was perforce withheld .
for, look you, how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died within's two hours.
confess and love ”  had been the very sum of my confession .
the heavens do lour upon you for some ill .  move them no more by crossing their high will .
it does ,  my lord .
call it my fear that keeps you in the house ,  and not your own .
whilst he stood up and spoke ,  he was my master ,  and i wore my life to spend upon his haters .
think on lord hastings .
here ,  quite confounded with this mutiny .
be ruled .
murder !
haply when i shall wed that lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry half my love with him ,  half my care and duty .
hail!
conception is a blessing ,  but ,  as your daughter may conceive—friend ,  look to ’t .
will you play upon this pipe?
there is no power in venice can alter a decree establishèd .
both ,  both ,  my lord . — this letter ,  madam ,  craves a speedy answer .
if you will take a homely man's advice ,  be not found here; hence ,  with your little ones .
their malady convinces the great assay of art ,  but at his touch— such sanctity hath heaven given his hand— they presently amend .
save means to live .
i did not .
how now ,  oswald ?
nay ,  and most like .
this blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child, and here was left by th’ sailors.
what wicked and dissembling glass of mine made me compare with hermia's sphery eyne?
now fear i this will give it start again; therefore let's follow .
i fly ,  biondello .
these tidings would well comfort cassius .
why ,  she hath a face of her own .
above my fortunes ,  yet my state is well .
if i do die before thee, prithee shroud me in one of those same sheets.
i have drunk but one cup tonight ,  and that was craftily qualified too ,  and behold what innovation it makes here .
i am satisfied in nature, whose motive in this case should stir me most to my revenge.
passion ,  i see ,  is catching ,  for mine eyes ,  seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine ,  began to water .
tis hamlet's character .
what say'st thou ?
believe me ,  sir ,  had i such venture forth ,  the better part of my affections would be with my hopes abroad .
into what dangers would you lead me ,  cassius ,  that you would have me seek into myself for that which is not in me ?
though birnam wood be come to dunsinane ,  and thou opposed ,  being of no woman born ,  yet i will try the last .
what means that bloody knife ?
fail not our feast.
and when the mind is quickened ,  out of doubt ,  the organs ,  though defunct and dead before ,  break up their drowsy grave and newly move ,  with casted slough and fresh legerity .
your heart is burst ,  you have lost half your soul .
but now ,  my lord ,  what say you to my suit ?
to the breach ,  to the breach !
thou and thy meaner fellows your last service did worthily perform ,  and i must use you in such another trick .
take you me for a sponge, my lord?
if it be no more, portia is brutus' harlot, not his wife.
nay ,  heaven doth know .
how was this seal'd?
wherefore ,  bold peasant ,  darest thou support a published traitor ?
a second daniel, a daniel, jew!
i took him sleeping—that is finished too— and the athenian woman by his side ,  that ,  when he waked ,  of force she must be eyed .
i do not think there is any such woman .
indeed ,  he is so .
balm his foul head in warm distilled waters and burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet .
be angry when you will ,  it shall have scope; do what you will ,  dishonor shall be humor .
therefore, for fear of the worst, i pray thee, set a deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket; for, if the devil be within and that temptation without, i know he will choose it.
she whom i love now doth grace for grace and love for love allow.
you cannot speak of reason to the dane, and lose your voice.
then the liars and swearers are fools; for there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them.
we talk here in the public haunt of men.
brave titinius !
i understand a fury in your words, but not the words.
no.
these things seem small and undistinguishable ,  like far - off mountains turned into clouds .
a heavy summons lies like lead upon me ,  and yet i would not sleep .
cursed be i that did so !
longer ,  longer .
truly ,  my name is cinna .
know ,  claudio ,  to thy head ,  thou hast so wronged mine innocent child and me that i am forced to lay my reverence by ,  and with gray hairs and bruise of many days do challenge thee to trial of a man .
take that of me ,  my friend ,  who have the power  to seal th' accuser’s lips .
go to ,  go to .
madam ,  i will .
if i profane with my unworthiest hand this holy shrine, the gentle fine is this: my lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
well, peace be with you!
part them!
that it did ,  sir ,  i’ the very throat on me: but i requited him for his lie ,  and ,  i think ,  being too strong for him ,  though he took up my legs sometime ,  yet i made a shift to cast him .
i am ashamed that women are so simple to offer war where they should kneel for peace; or seek for rule ,  supremacy and sway when they are bound to serve ,  love ,  and obey .
doth she not count her blessed ,  unworthy as she is ,  that we have wrought so worthy a gentleman to be her bride ?
no ,  madam .
and therefore haste away ,  for we must measure twenty miles today .
when i told you my state was nothing ,  i should then have told you that i was worse than nothing ,  for indeed i have engaged myself to a dear friend ,  engaged my friend to his mere enemy to feed my means .
and did not they put on my brows this wreath of victory, and bid me give it thee?
let me dispute with thee of thy estate .
to't .
to find out you .
alone ,  it was the subject of my theme; in company i often glancèd it .
how long hath he been there ?
come .
how many goodly creatures are there here !
to the elephant .
ay me!
come from thy ward ,  for i can here disarm thee with this stick and make thy weapon drop .
let’s then determine with the ancient of war on our proceedings .
well ,  syracusian ,  say in brief the cause why thou dep - artedst from thy native home and for what cause thou camest to ephesus .
nature shows art, that through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
we’ll to dinner ,  thither .
could you not take some occasion without giving ?
oh ,  my lord ,  wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body ,  we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory .
chastisement ?
a was the first that ever bore arms .
ay ,  and briefly .
ourselves we do not owe .
where shall we dine ?
what things are these ,  my lord antonio ?
what says the silver, with her virgin hue?
i will not do them wrong; i rather choose to wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you, than i will wrong such honorable men.
do you see, gentlemen?
but there where i have garnered up my heart ,  where either i must live or bear no life ,  the fountain from the which my current runs or else dries up—to be discarded thence !
i partly feel thee .
they are coming to the play .
hast thou no letters to me from the friar ?
you may as well go about to turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a peacock’s feather .
then burst his mighty heart ,  and ,  in his mantle muffling up his face ,  even at the base of pompey's statue ,  which all the while ran blood ,  great caesar fell .
pisa ,  renownèd for grave citizens ,  gave me my being and my father first ,  a merchant of great traffic through the world ,  vincentio ,  come of the bentivolii .
i am sped .
it is a fault that springeth from your eye .
why, thou silly gentleman!
may one be pardon'd and retain the offence ?
noblest of men ,  woo’t die ?
i shall obey you in all fair commands .
i will forget my nature .
o spite!
by two o'clock i will be with thee again .
and let him hold his fingers thus ,  and through that cranny shall pyramus and thisbe whisper .
and leave us ,  publius ,  lest that the people ,  rushing on us ,  should do your age some mischief .
o bloody period!
but ,  sir ,  such answer as i can make ,  you shall command; or rather ,  as you say ,  my mother .
well ,  well ,  well— pray god it be ,  sir .
you must not think that we are made of stuff so flat and dull that we can let our beard be shook with danger ,  and think it pastime .
o peer!
you, roderigo!
to the boatswain] now ,  [to the boatswain] now ,  blasphemy ,  that swear'st grace o'erboard: not an oath on shore ?
young fortinbras ,  with conquest come from poland ,  to the ambassadors of england gives this warlike volley .
let us hear what antony can say .
better macbeth than such an one to reign.
what beast was't then that made you break this enterprise to me ?
from that place i shall no leading need .
what comfortable hour canst thou name ,  that ever graced me in thy company ?
i think thou dost; and for i know thou'rt full of love and honesty and weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath, therefore these stops of thine fright me the more; for such things in a false disloyal knave are tricks of custom; but in a man that's just they're close dilations, working from the heart, that passion cannot rule.
unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor ,  bare ,  forked animal as thou art . —  off ,  off ,  you lendings !
i am more an antique romanthan a dane .
do you know him ?
no, not much moved.
then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows.
you tell us the manner of the wrestling .
i would thou couldst stammer ,  that thou might’st pour this concealed man out of thy mouth as wine comes out of a narrow - mouthed bottle—either too much at once ,  or none at all .
philomel with melody sing in our sweet lullaby .
tis very good; i must be circumstanced.
i stay here on my bond .
give me a taper ,  call up all my people !
though now this grainèd face of mine be hid in sap - consuming winter’s drizzled snow ,  and all the conduits of my blood froze up ,  yet hath my night of life some memory ,  my wasting lamps some fading glimmer left ,  my dull deaf ears a little use to hear .
what may this mean that thou, dead corse, again, in complete steel, revisits thus the glimpses of the moon, making night hideous, and we fools of nature so horridly to shake our disposition with thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
look you ,  these are the stops .
now much beshrew my manners and my pride, if hermia meant to say lysander lied!
fie upon thee!
come ,  sir ,  what letters had you late from france ?
thou wouldst make a good fool .
all’s but naught .
let me play the lion too.
then comes she to me and with wild looks bid me devise some mean to rid her from this second marriage ,  or in my cell there would she kill herself .
be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay .
do you triumph ,  roman ?
i knew you at the first you were a moveable .
how long hast thou been a grave-maker?
he waxes desperate with imagination .
well ,  sir ,  for want of other idleness ,  i’ll bide your proof .
what a blow was there given !
i would it might prove the end of his losses !
here comes his body ,  mourned by mark antony ,  who ,  though he had no hand in his death ,  shall receive the benefit of his dying ,  a place in the commonwealth ,  as which of you shall not ?
that’s all one: has hurt me ,  and there’s the end on ’t .
men should be what they seem; or those that be not ,  would they might seem none !
man is but an ass if he go about to expound this methought i was—there is no man can tell what dream .
o!
i am old now ,  and these same crosses spoil me .
ay ,  madam .
thou hast described a hot friend cooling.
the hearts of old gave hands; but our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.
oh ,  i die for food .
i take my leave at once.
eyes without feeling ,  feeling without sight ,  ears without hands or eyes ,  smelling sans all ,  or but a sickly part of one true sense could not so mope .
stay, countrymen.
o, my fear interprets!
first ,  i must tell thee this: desdemona is directly in love with him .
hast thou drunk well ?
good madam ,  hear me .
speak briefly ,  can you like of paris’ love ?
foul deeds will rise, though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
you shall have ransom .
which of you all will now deny to dance ?
will you come to bed, my lord?
bear me ,  good friends ,  where cleopatra bides .
to find out you .
what ,  not one hit ?
but for your husband, he is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows the fits o’ the season.
this is a trick to put me from my suit .
bear hence this body and attend our will .
oh ,  then we bring forth weeds when our quick minds lie still ,  and our ills told us is as our earing .
do you confess the bond?
of launcelot, an't please your mastership.
marry ,  i remember it well .
she is too fair ,  too wise ,  wisely too fair ,  to merit bliss by making me despair .
i do not bid thee call .
thou dost ,  and think'st it much to tread the ooze of the salt deep ,  to run upon the sharp wind of the north ,  to do me business in the veins o'th’ earth when it is baked with frost .
put money in thy purse .
my dukedom since you have given me again ,  i will requite you with as good a thing; at least bring forth a wonder to content ye as much as me my dukedom .
o my brave emperor ,  this is fought indeed !
is she a capulet ?
what harmony is this?
none that i more love than myself .
if a christian do not play the knave and get thee ,  i am much deceived .
but do not go with it!
i will not.
it gives me wonder great as my content to see you here before me .
farewell .
ghastly looks are at my service ,  like enforcèd smiles ,  and both are ready in their offices ,  at any time to grace my stratagems .
if every one knows us ,  and we know none ,  'tis time ,  i think ,  to trudge ,  pack ,  and be gone .
such as she says my lord did say i was .
what mean your graces ?
i’ll ride your horse as well as i ride you .
welcome ,  iago; we must to the watch .
excellent good.
lie on her ?
what are thy comings in ?
why ,  this is a more exquisite song than the other .
i do bite my thumb, sir.
o my sweet ,  i prattle out of fashion ,  and i dote in mine own comforts .
let her have your voices.
so haply slander whose whisper o'er the world's diameter, as level as the cannon to his blank, transports his poisoned shot, may miss our name and hit the woundless air.—o, come away!
i will speak lower .
hang him, jack!
i can no more.
and i'll still stay, to have thee still forget, forgetting any other home but this.
why ,  how now ,  juliet ?
the crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark, when neither is attended; and, i think, the nightingale, if she should sing by day, when every goose is cackling, would be thought no better a musician than the wren.
where yond pine does stand i shall discover all .
thou need’st not to be gone .
fortune is an excellent moral .
this was an ill beginning of the night .
i know not what to say .
i drew to part them .
she died ,  my lord ,  but whiles her slander lived .
what is my name ?
i must go in .
sir, would she give you so much of her lips as of her tongue she oft bestows on me, you'ld have enough.
my good friends ,  i’ll leave you till night .
good night.
when a wise man gives thee better counsel ,  give me mine again .
not mad ,  but bound more than a madman is ,  shut up in prison ,  kept without my food ,  whipped and tormented and—good e'en ,  good fellow .
nothing, my lord.
her mood will needs be pitied.
who's there ?
and fix'd his eyes upon you ?
it is not words that shakes me thus .
what will you do ?
hast thou no mouth by land?
they are natural .  ”  for i believe they are portentous things unto the climate that they point upon .
thursday let it be— a thursday, tell her she shall be married to this noble earl.
caesar did write for him to come to rome .
blister'd be thy tongue for such a wish !
then we are rid of litio .
make the rope of his destiny our cable ,  for our own doth little advantage .
they shall have none ,  i swear ,  but these my joints ,  which ,  if they have ,  as i will leave 'em them ,  shall yield them little .
your  it is not a fashion for the maids in france to kiss before they are married ,  would she say ?
yea ,  art thou there ?
alas, who knows?
so i do .
my lord bassanio gave his ring away unto the judge that begged it and indeed deserved it too .
this supernatural cannot be ill ,  cannot be good .
the castle’s gently rendered .
boy ,  this shall not excuse the injuries that thou hast done me .
where dwell you ,  pretty youth ?
let’s carve him as a dish fit for the gods ,  not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds .
no beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity .
not poppy ,  nor mandragora ,  nor all the drowsy syrups of the world ,  shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep which thou owedst yesterday .
pah!
who knocks so hard ?
still be kind and eke out our performance with your mind .
his father ,  though i say ’t ,  is an honest exceeding poor man and ,  god be thanked ,  well to live .
but what of that ?
who, i, my lord?
you have dancing shoes with nimble soles; i have a soul of lead so stakes me to the ground i cannot move.
if you do meet horatio and marcellus ,  the rivals of my watch ,  bid them make haste .
why railest thou on thy birth ,  the heaven ,  and earth ?
but down .
my lord ,  he doth deny to come .
so did i too ,  and he swore he would marry her tonight .
how now, my headstrong?
are you wise ?
o me ,  o me !
what unaccustom'd cause procures her hither ?
tis evermore the prologue to his sleep .
why, thou debauched fish, thou, was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack as i to-day?
didst thou not say he lied ?
come what come may, time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight.
sooth ,  la ,  i’ll help .
of what personage and years is he ?
tis a chough; but, as i say, spacious in the pos- session of dirt.
ho !
since he hath got the jewel that i loved ,  and that which you did swear to keep for me ,  i will become as liberal as you .
a most unhappy one .
ay ,  do you fear it ?
i have made you mad, and even with suchlike valour men hang and drown their proper selves.
now ,  by saint peter’s church and peter too ,  he shall not make me there a joyful bride .
be kent unmannerly when lear is mad .
as if time were in debt .
by heaven ,  i'll know thy thoughts .
you must leave this .
you have lost no reputation at all unless you repute yourself such a loser .
farewell; and if my fortune be not cross'd ,  i have a father ,  you a daughter ,  lost .
i do beseech your grace ,  let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me .
horatio ,  thou art e'en as just a man as e'er my conversation coped withal .
i think he told me paris should have married juliet .
tybalt is dead, and romeo banished.’ that ‘banished,’ that one word ‘banished,’ hath slain ten thousand tybalts.
let not thy discreet heart think it.
this doth betoken the corse they follow did with desperate hand fordo its own life .
if thou beest trinculo ,  come forth .
i mean ,  the matter that you read ,  my lord .
why came i hither but to that intent ?
the most infectious pestilence upon thee !
my lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
marry ,  sir ,  because silver hath a sweet sound .
forty thousand brothers could not with all their quantity of love make up my sum .
soft!
he ran this way, and leapt this orchard wall.
the human mortals want their winter here; no night is now with hymn or carol blest; therefore the moon ,  the governess of floods ,  pale in her anger ,  washes all the air ,  that rheumatic diseases do abound .
truly ,  i have him ,  but i would not be the party that should desire you to touch him ,  for his biting is immortal .
why ,  one that swears and lies .
yon light is not daylight; i know it ,  i .
nor i know not where i did lodge last night .
while one with moderate haste might tell a hundred .
i could munch your good dry oats .
the charm's wound up .
ah ,  rosencrantz !
madam !
you have often begun to tell me what i am, but stopped and left me to a bootless inquisition, concluding ‘stay, not yet.’ the hour's now come; the very minute bids thee ope thine ear, obey, and be attentive.
come hither ,  you rogue !
sir, here is newly come to court laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and great showing.
say from whence you owe this strange intelligence ,  or why upon this blasted heath you stop our way with such prophetic greeting .
antonio ,  o my dear antonio !
we shall obey, were she ten times our mother.
nurse ,  come back again; i have remember'd me ,  thou shalt hear our counsel .
robin starveling ,  the tailor .
on me ,  that halts and am misshapen thus ?
give me the letter ,  sir .
before me ,  she’s a good wench .
i know our country disposition well .
out of my sight !
were't good?
what does the tyrant ?
know thus far forth: by accident most strange ,  bountiful fortune (now my dear lady) hath mine enemies brought to this shore .
sheathe your dagger.
oh ,  my dear cassio !
i take this offer then , —pay the bond thrice and let the christian go .
poor painted queen ,  vain flourish of my fortune ,  why strew’st thou sugar on that bottled spider ,  whose deadly web ensnareth thee about ?
i know not ,  gentlemen ,  what you intend ,  who else must be let blood ,  who else is rank .
i eat the air ,  promise - crammed .
kind souls ,  what weep you when you but behold our caesar's vesture wounded ?
we have been praying for our husbands' welfare, which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
therefore the moon ,  the governess of floods ,  pale in her anger ,  washes all the air ,  that rheumatic diseases do abound .
well ,  good night .
i shall have glory by this losing day ,  more than octavius and mark antony by this vile conquest shall attain unto .
talk no more .
tis strange .
sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him; and go, sir paris.
up and down, up and down, i will lead them up and down.
the english are embattled ,  you french peers .
meet me and gratiano ,  at gratiano's lodging some hour hence .
cross him in nothing .
dear my lord ,  if you in your own proof have vanquished the resistance of her youth and made defeat of her virginity— i know what you would say: if i have known her ,  you will say she did embrace me as a husband ,  and so extenuate the forehand sin .
feed him with apricoks and dewberries ,  with purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries .
and let our hearts ,  as subtle masters do ,  stir up their servants to an act of rage and after seem to chide 'em .
come let’s in all .
my daughter!
it follows ,  then ,  the cat must stay at home .
the raven himself is hoarse that croaks the fatal entrance of duncan under my battlements .
well ,  officer ,  arrest him at my suit .
nor i neither .
i will incontinently drown myself .
so ,  oft it chances in particular men ,  that for some vicious mole of nature in them ,  as in their birth—wherein they are not guilty ,  since nature cannot choose his origin— by the o'ergrowth of some complexion ,  oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason ,  or by some habit that too much o'erleavens the form of plausive manners ,  that these men— carrying ,  i say ,  the stamp of one defect ,  being nature's livery ,  or fortune's star— their virtues else—be they as pure as grace ,  as infinite as man may undergo— shall in the general censure take corruption from that particular fault .
the people 'twixt philippi and this ground do stand but in a forced affection, for they have grudged us contribution.
here he comes .
tis certain there’s not a boy left alive ,  and the cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha' done this slaughter .
the money that you owe me for the chain .
you know ,  he brought me out o' favor with my lady about a bear - baiting here .
ay ,  it stands so that i may hardly tarry so long .
i could find in my heart to beat him—   but that the poor monster’s in drink .
by the world ,  i think my wife be honest ,  and think she is not; i think that thou art just ,  and think thou art not .
they are loves i bear to you .
then he shall have no odds .
so do all thoughts .
he has broke my head across and has given sir toby a bloody coxcomb too .
i overheard him and his practices .
tis one iago, ancient to the general.
come ,  let me clutch thee .
perchance he is not drown’d . —what think you ,  sailors ?
presently ?
keep the door .
who knocks so hard ?
about the ninth hour ,  lady .
yet here’s a spot .
mistress ,  that you know .
no more yet of this ,  for ‘tis a chronicle of day by day ,  not a relation for a breakfast ,  nor befitting this first meeting .
the pig ,  or the great ,  or the mighty ,  or the huge ,  or the magnanimous are all one reckonings ,  save the phrase is a little variations .
most necessary 'tis that we forget to pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt .
tell him i am prompt to lay my crown at ’s feet ,  and there to kneel .
know him!
but a harsh hearing when women are froward .
he ,  sir ,  that must marry this woman .
i defy lechery .
who commands them ,  sir ?
sir ,  there is especial commission come from venice to depute cassio in othello's place .
what's the news with you?
fie on thee ,  wretch .
we'll make our leisures to attend on yours.
commend me to thy lady ,  and bid her hasten all the house to bed ,  which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto .
tide life, 'tide death, i come without delay.
for the most part ,  too ,  they are foolish that are so .
i do believe it against an oracle.
indeed he is not fit .
wherefore throng you hither ?
if i do die before thee ,  prithee ,  shroud me in one of these same sheets .
he, sir.
the service and the loyalty i owe ,  in doing it ,  pays itself .
you are welcome ,  gentlemen !
get your apparel together; good strings to your beards ,  new ribbons to your pumps; meet presently at the palace; every man look o'er his part; for the short and the long is ,  our play is preferred .
by janus ,  i think no .
is it so, countrymen?
i must be gone and live ,  or stay and die .
make thick my blood ,  stop up the access and passage to remorse ,  that no compunctious visitings of nature shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between the effect and it !
here is the man ,  this moor; whom now ,  it seems ,  your special mandate for the state affairs hath hither brought .
i am much bound to you .
methinks i see thee now ,  thou art so low as one dead in the bottom of a tomb .
go prick thy face and over - red thy fear ,  thou lily - liver'd boy .
lead off this ground ,  and let's make further search for my poor son .
ay ,  but i know— what dost thou know ?
i did, my lord.
your nymphs, called naiads of the wandering brooks, with your sedged crowns and over-harmless looks, leave your crisp channels and on this green land answer your summons; juno does command.
come ,  sir ,  i am for you .
marry ,  to—come ,  captain ,  will you go ?
antonio and old shylock ,  both stand forth .
this speech of yours hath moved me ,  and shall perchance do good .
was that mine ?
come ,  my lord; and in our flight ,  tell me how it came this night that i sleeping here was found with these mortals on the ground .
no, let me know; and knowing what i am, i know what she shall be.
the thane of fife had a wife .
sblood, do you think i am easier to be played on than a pipe?
get thee away .
no ,  by my life and soul !
ay ,  madam ,  from the reach of these my hands .
you ,  you ,  sirrah ,  where’s my daughter ?
hold off thy hand !
o courteous tybalt!
see ,  they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks .
there, give it your hobby-horse.
and i beseech you come again tomorrow .
let not a traitor live!
whither are you going?
are not you moved, when all the sway of earth shakes like a thing unfirm?
i am even the natural fool of fortune .
answer to that .
if not ,  your pardon and my return shall be the end of my business .
come ,  wherefore should you be so pashful ?
dost thou forget from what a torment i did free thee ?
this were kindness.
and for my means ,  i'll husband them so well ,  they shall go far with little .
wilt thou do this?
my lord, i think i saw him yesternight.
what tell'st thou me of robbing?
it touches you ,  my lord ,  as much as me .
look you who comes here ,  a young man and an old in solemn talk .
nay ,  i am for all waters .
i never may believe these antique fables, nor these fairy toys.
and another storm brewing ,  i hear it sing i' th' wind .
pray ,  do not mock me .
wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ?
how think you of it ?
death ,  that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail ,  ties up my tongue and will not let me speak .
believe me, sir, had i such venture forth, the better part of my affections would be with my hopes abroad.
my learnèd lord ,  we pray you to proceed and justly and religiously unfold why the law salic that they have in france or should or should not bar us in our claim .
i pray you call them in .
now is the sun upon the highmost hill of this day’s journey ,  and from nine till twelve is three long hours ,  yet she is not come .
infirm of purpose !
in all these circumstances i’ll instruct you .
so can i .
thou hast served me with much faith .
these both put off ,  a poor petitioner ,  a care - crazed mother to a many sons ,  a beauty - waning and distressèd widow ,  even in the afternoon of her best days ,  made prize and purchase of his wanton eye ,  seduced the pitch and height of his degree to base declension and loathed bigamy .
what should this mean ?
but fare ye well .
either send the chain ,  or send me by some token .
for we will fetters put upon this fear ,  which now goes too free - footed .
the gold i gave to dromio is laid up safe at the centaur ,  and the heedful slave is wandered forth ,  in care to seek me out .
fast bind ,  fast find .
were of an age.
that is the very defect of the matter, sir.
madam ,  not now .
relent ?
o fates !
alack ,  what trouble was i then to you !
this is the indictment of the good lord hastings ,  which in a set hand fairly is engrossed ,  that it may be today read o'er in paul’s .
since i came hither ,  which i can call but now ,  i have heard strange news .
and now to our french causes .
make room, and let him stand before our face.
ha ,  banishment ?
do so .
thus then in brief: the valiant paris seeks you for his love .
mock not ,  enobarbus .
i will not choose what many men desire because i will not jump with common spirits and rank me with the barbarous multitudes .
let it work ,  for ’tis the sport to have the engineer hoist with his own petard .
what's your gracious pleasure ?
i will tell you everything ,  right as it fell out .
so smile the heavens upon this holy act that after-hours with sorrow chide us not!
what's thy pleasure?
good romeo ,  hide thyself .
what fray was here ?
so i ,  being young ,  till now ripe not to reason .
thou'lt be afraid to hear it .
give me your hand .
harp not on that string ,  madam; that is past .
hold !
go, hercules!
that is no slander ,  sir ,  which is a truth; and what i spake ,  i spake it to my face .
yes ,  by heaven !
that eye that told you so looked but asquint .
if't be so ,  for banquo's issue have i filed my mind ,  for them the gracious duncan have i murdered ,  put rancors in the vessel of my peace only for them ,  and mine eternal jewel given to the common enemy of man ,  to make them kings ,  the seed of banquo kings !
give him a present .
younger than she are happy mothers made .
the poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven; and as imagination bodies forth the forms of things unknown, the poet's pen turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing a local habitation and a name.
then comes my fit again .
hie therefore ,  robin ,  overcast the night; the starry welkin cover thou anon with drooping fog as black as acheron ,  and lead these testy rivals so astray as one come not within another's way .
my lady charged my duty in this business .
he shall pay for him that hath him ,  and that soundly .
ay, marry, i'll be gone about it straight.
it provokes the desire ,  but it takes away the performance .
peace !
thank you.
judgment!
nay ,  hear them ,  antony .
is this the prince’s brother ?
this is the man .
masters, you are all welcome.
of her society be not afraid .
when laban and himself were compromis'd that all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied should fall, as jacob's hire; the ewes, being rank, in the end of autumn turned to the rams: and when the work of generation was, between these woolly breeders, in the act, the skilful shepherd pill'd me certain wands, and, in the doing of the deed of kind, he stuck them up before the fulsome ewes; who, then conceiving, did in eaning-time fall party-colour'd lambs, and those were jacob's.
by the pricking of my thumbs ,  something wicked this way comes .
what you have charged me with ,  that have i done— and more ,  much more .
for god’s sake ,  a pot of small ale .
i urge this childhood proof because what follows is pure innocence .
will you walk towards him ?
help, help!
here is the head of that ignoble traitor ,  the dangerous and unsuspected hastings .
i know not .
and ,  sister ,  as the winds give benefit and convey is assistant ,  do not sleep ,  but let me hear from you .
no ,  my noble lord ,  it is not for you .
i told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking; so fun of valour that they smote the air for breathing in their faces, beat the ground for kissing of their feet; yet always bending towards their project.
all but mariners plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel ,  then all afire with me .
the tyrannous and bloody act is done ,  the most arch deed of piteous massacre that ever yet this land was guilty of .
false to me ?
iago ,  who began ’t ?
despise me ,  if i do not .
i have already .
how now ,  my dear othello !
out— of love ?
sir topas ,  sir topas ,  good sir topas ,  go to my lady— out ,  hyperbolical fiend !
and did you see the handkerchief?
go ,  borrow me a crow .
hic et ubique?
to th’ monument !
o, thou art wise; 'tis certain.
you should be ruled and led by some discretion that discerns your state better than you yourself .
what shall we hear of this ?
here is the man, this moor; whom now, it seems, your special mandate for the state affairs hath hither brought.
if any, speak, for him have i offended.
bring thou the master to the citadel .
men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run as it were doomsday .
so ,  i am satisfied .
behold ,  i have a weapon .
belike they had some notice of the people ,  how i had moved them .
pray you ,  let cassio be received again .
o ,  that a lady of one man refused should of another therefore be abused !
we doubt it nothing .
it will but skin and film the ulcerous place, whiles rank corruption, mining all within, infects unseen.
what you have spoke ,  it may be so perchance .
demetrius loves your fair .
fellow grumio !
were he not warmed with ale ,  this were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly .
give me some aqua vitae.
o ,  ’tis a parlous boy ,  bold ,  quick ,  ingenious ,  forward ,  capable .
committed ?
to you i am bound for life and education; my life and education both do learn me how to respect you; you are the lord of duty ,  i am hitherto your daughter .
he speaks well .
get me ink and paper and hire posthorses .
we are such stuff as dreams are made on ,  and our little life is rounded with a sleep .
are these, i pray you, wind instruments?
let it come down .
these are portents ,  but yet i hope ,  i hope they do not point on me .
put up thy sword ,  or manage it to part these men with me .
the nature of bad news infects the teller .
keep your word ,  phoebe ,  that you’ll marry me or else ,  refusing me ,  to wed this shepherd .
but the rarity of it is—which is indeed almost beyond credit—  as many vouched rarities are .
it doth appear you are a worthy judge .
i would forget it fain; but o ,  it presses to my memory like damned guilty deeds to sinners’ minds !
faith ,  there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to controver -  sy .
lady, such a man as all the world- why he's a man of wax.
my only love ,  sprung from my only hate !
o ,  then ,  by day where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough to mask thy monstrous visage ?
not in love neither?
i think we are too bold upon your rest .
you know the rendezvous.
go take this shape ,  and hither come in't: go; hence with diligence !
how if i answer  “ no ”  ?
i will then give it you soundly .
and wherefore doth lysander deny your love, so rich within his soul, and tender me, forsooth, affection, but by your setting on, by your consent?
if hamlet give the first or second hit or quit in answer of the third exchange ,  let all the battlements their ordnance fire !
what ish my nation ?
here’s yet some liquor left .
what is the matter ?
o brave iago, honest and just, that hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong!
he cannot by the duello avoid it .
a good and virtuous nature may recoil in an imperial charge.
close by ,  my master .
their shadows seem a canopy most fatal ,  under which our army lies ,  ready to give up the ghost .
now sir, this granted—as it is a most pregnant and unforced position—who stands so eminently in the degree of this fortune as cassio does?
i will be with thee straight.
o son ,  the night before thy wedding day hath death lain with thy wife .
we shall be the more marketable . —bonjour ,  monsieur le beau .
when time shall serve ,  let but the herald cry ,  and i’ll appear again .
why ,  right ,  you are in the right .
before the time i did lysander see ,  seem'd athens as a paradise to me .
how say'st thou, that macduff denies his person at our great bidding?
answer every man directly .
here thought they to have done some wanton charm upon this man and maid ,  whose vows are that no bed - right shall be paid till hymen’s torch be lighted—but in vain .
yet there he was ,  and there i found this credit ,  that he did range the town to seek me out .
let every man be master of his time till seven at night .
dull thing, i say so: he, that caliban whom now i keep in service.
well aimed of such a young one .
but that ,  forsooth ,  the bouncing amazon ,  your buskined mistress and your warrior love ,  to theseus must be wedded ,  and you come to give their bed joy and prosperity .
a second daniel ! —a daniel ,  jew !
most monsterlike be shown for poor’st diminutives ,  for dolts ,  and let patient octavia plow thy visage up with her preparèd nails !
we will, my lord.
such wind as scatters young men through the world to seek their fortunes farther than at home ,  where small experience grows .
i’ll be your foil ,  laertes .
if signor leonato be her father ,  she would not have his head on her shoulders for all messina ,  as like him as she is .
but herein mean i to enrich my pain, to have his sight thither and back again.
nothing extenuate ,  nor set down aught in malice .
nay ,  good my lord— it is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gain - giving as would perhaps trouble a woman .
and so had mine .
but how did you desire it should be made ?
thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords in our own proper entrails .
what ,  i' th' storm ,  i' th' night ?
give every man thy ear but few thy voice .
if i can fasten but one cup upon him, with that which he hath drunk tonight already, he'll be as full of quarrel and offense as my young mistress' dog.
talk not to me .
vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue.
my heart is wondrous light ,  since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd .
for mine own part ,  i shall be glad to learn of noble men .
my lord ,  i hold my life as dear as you do yours ,  and never in my days ,  i do protest ,  was it so precious to me as ’tis now .
i know that ,  but i would have thee hence and here again .
i pray you, let me look upon the bond.
to bear all smooth and even ,  this sudden sending him away must seem deliberate pause .
well ,  sir ,  i will .
i, beyond all limit of what else i'th’ world, do love, prize, honour you.
good fortune ,  worthy soldier ,  and farewell .
what is your name ?
if then that friend demand why brutus rose against caesar, this is my answer: not that i loved caesar less, but that i loved rome more.
villain ,  thou diest !
i delight in masques and revels sometimes altogether .
how say you by that ?
then appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony.
i thank your honor .
hath not a jew eyes ?
black night o'ershade thy day ,  and death thy life .
go call him hither .
there are two lodged together .
if ever he have wife ,  let her be made more miserable by the death of him than i am made by my poor lord and thee . — come now towards chertsey with your holy load ,  taken from paul’s to be interrèd there .
believe what ?
how do you mean, removing of him?
for your life you durst not .
i once more take my leave.
i think it was to see my mother's wedding.
there art thou happy too .
but i'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.
the villany you teach me i will execute; and it shall go hard but i will better the instruction.
there was more foolery yet, if could remember it.
wherefore art thou romeo ?
what ,  to perverseness ?
how weary ,  stale ,  flat and unprofitable seem to me all the uses of this world !
cry mercy ,  lords and watchful gentlemen ,  that you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here .
and when i told thee he was of my counsel of my whole course of wooing ,  thou cried’st  “ indeed ?  ”  and didst contract and purse thy brow together as if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain some horrible conceit .
i think this tale would win my daughter too.
mars’s hot minion is returned again .
each new morn new widows howl ,  new orphans cry ,  new sorrows strike heaven on the face ,  that it resounds as if it felt with scotland and yelled out like syllable of dolor .
is that any thing now?
well ,  gaoler ,  on:—pray god ,  bassanio come to see me pay his debt ,  and then i care not !
he hath brought many captives home to rome whose ransoms did the general coffers fill .
a sail ,  a sail !
i had rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
speak, for my heart is full.
this caesar was a tyrant .
tell me your counsels .
i had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
rebels it at these years ?
the devil speaks in him .
i’ll put ’t in proof .
dear lad ,  believe it .
tis time that i were gone .
dost thou hear me, old friend?
i would not follow him then .
rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
and look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.
i stretch it out for that word  “ broad ,  ”  which ,  added to the goose ,  proves thee far and wide a broad goose .
leave us .
come ,  bring me where they are .
i am not sick ,  if brutus have in hand any exploit worthy the name of honor .
give me some help.
contemning rome ,  he has done all this and more in alexandria .
but ,  by 'r lady ,  he must build churches then ,  or else shall he suffer not thinking on ,  with the hobby - horse ,  whose epitaph is  “ for ,  oh ,  for ,  oh ,  the hobby - horse is forgot .  ”       what means this ,  my lord ?
what can he say in this ?
how oddly thou repliest !
say ,  my spirit ,  how fares the king and ’s followers ?
sheathe your dagger .
a sweet woman !
for this slave, if there be any cunning cruelty that can torment him much and hold him long, it shall be his.
this day ,  great duke ,  she shut the doors upon me while she with harlots feasted in my house .
here ,  peter quince .
marry ,  this is miching
true .
can you not stay awhile?
this is dear mercy ,  and thou seest it not .
tell me ,  good my friend ,  what torch is yond that vainly lends his light to grubs and eyeless skulls ?
was the crown offered him thrice ?
our sex ,  as well as i ,  may chide you for it ,  though i alone do feel the injury .
o, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
i'll not be far from you .
come ,  come ,  good wine is a good familiar creature ,  if it be well used .
nor time nor place did then adhere ,  and yet you would make both: they have made themselves ,  and that their fitness now does unmake you .
by your pardon ,  i will myself into the pulpit first ,  and show the reason of our caesar's death .
how does the queen ?
how the knave jowls it to the ground ,  as if 'were cain's jawbone ,  that did the first murder !
i rest much bounden to you .
we'll to dinner thither.
hail to your lordship!
howling attends it .
impatient of my absence, and grief that young octavius with mark antony have made themselves so strong: for with her death that tidings came: with this she fell distract, and, her attendants absent, swallow'd fire.
bring me to antony .
i’ll end my exhortation after dinner .
the gentleman will ,  for his honor’s sake ,  have one bout with you .
a knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
yes ,  my conscience ,  he did us great good .
believe me ,  sir ,  had i such venture forth ,  the better part of my affections would be with my hopes abroad .
o ,  pardon ,  sir ,  it doth ,  and yon grey lines that fret the clouds are messengers of day .
our gracious brother ,  i will go with them .
what it should be ,  more than his father's death ,  that thus hath put him so much from the understanding of himself ,  i cannot dream of .
i drink to thee .
cursed be my tribe if i forgive him!
a very gentle beast ,  and of a good conscience .
one of them showed me a ring ,  that he had of your daughter for a monkey .
why, then, 'tis hers, my lord, and being hers, she may, i think, bestow't on any man.
returned so soon ?
o, she's rich in beauty; only poor that, when she dies, with beauty dies her store.
seek him ,  bid him come hither .
if thou beest prospero, give us particulars of thy preservation; how thou hast met us here, who three hours since were wrecked upon this shore; where i have lost— how sharp the point of this remembrance is!— my dear son ferdinand.
o ,  preposterous and frantic outrage ,  end thy damnèd spleen ,  or let me die ,  to look on death no more .
no, caesar, we will answer on their charge.
i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry .
oh ,  that we now had here but one ten thousand of those men in england that do no work today .
tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus .
look where it comes again !
the dearest friend to me ,  the kindest man ,  the best - condition'd and unwearied spirit in doing courtesies; and one in whom the ancient roman honour more appears ,  than any that draws breath in italy .
i am sorry that with better heed and judgment i had not quoted him.
to adrian] [to sebastian] why ,  in good time .
farewell ,  and if my fortune be not crost ,  i have a father ,  you a daughter ,  lost .
which of you two did dine with me today ?
doth fortune play the huswife with me now ?
we must speak by the card ,  or equivocation will undo us .
no ,  we’ll reason with him .
with what addition?
where they feared the death ,  they have borne life away; and where they would be safe ,  they perish .
invest me in my motley .
now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards, am i to put our cassio in some action that may offend the isle.
prithee ,  friend ,  pour out the pack of matter to mine ear ,  the good and bad together .
conscience and grace ,  to the profoundest pit !
o, a chair, a chair!
this doth not so ,  for she divideth us .
i pray you ,  sir ,  what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his ropery ?
like aqua vitae with a midwife .
who's there ?
go but apart, make choice of whom your wisest friends you will, and they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
when comes such another ?
tis even so ,  for let our finger ache and it endues our other healthful members even to that sense of pain .
let the king have the letters i have sent, and repair thou to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death.
uncle, this is a montague, our foe; a villain, that is hither come in spite to scorn at our solemnity this night.
villain am i none .
ay me !
the order was reversed .
spoke like a tall man that respects thy reputation .
god be wi' you and keep you and heal your pate .
fled this way ,  sir ,  when by no means he could— pursue him ,  ho !
be patient till the last .
andrew aguecheek ”
i'll make thee an example.
i have it ready for thee; here it is.
tell not me .
what dost thou mean ?
tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee !
yea ,  marry ,  dost thou hear ,  balthasar ?
you shall have none ill ,  sir ,  for i’ll try if they can lick their fingers .
what's the business, that such a hideous trumpet calls to parley the sleepers of the house?
fly ,  fly ,  my lord .
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie ?
fortune is merry ,  and in this mood will give us anything .
how should they ,  when that wise men have no eyes ?
no more light answers .
his madness.
you were to blame ,  i must be plain with you ,  to part so slightly with your wife's first gift; a thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger ,  and so riveted with faith unto your flesh .
your servants ever have theirs ,  themselves ,  and what is theirs in compt ,  to make their audit at your highness' pleasure ,  still to return your own .
say ,  what ,  is horatio there ?
then what i have to do will want true colour—tears perchance for blood .
learn it ,  learn it ,  marquess .
but come ,  for england !
and when i have stol'n upon these sons - in - law ,  then ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill !
they would be better if well followed .
dove - feathered raven ,  wolvish - ravening lamb !
where is he ,  in his bed ?
what man dare, i dare.
not a hair perished; on their sustaining garments not a blemish, but fresher than before; and as thou bad'st me, in troops i have dispersed them ’bout the isle.
a crutch ,  a crutch !
what should i say to you?
fare you well, my lord.
i am the youngest of that name ,  for fault of a worse .
when went there by an age since the great flood but it was famed with more than with one man?
and jealous oberon would have the child knight of his train ,  to trace the forests wild .
he will divorce you ,  or put upon you what restraint and grievance the law ,  with all his might to enforce it on ,  will give him cable .
no; they were well at peace when i did leave ’em.
thou shalt find that i’ll resume the shape which thou dost think i have cast off for ever .
the flat transgression of a schoolboy who ,  being overjoyed with finding a birds' nest ,  shows it his companion ,  and he steals it .
beguil'd ,  divorced ,  wronged ,  spited ,  slain !
fair sir, you are well o'erta'en: my lord bassanio, upon more advice, hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat your company at dinner.
and benedick is not the unhopefulest husband that i know .
so do i ,  my lord .
i’ll leave you ,  lady .
or i do forget myself ?
that would hang us ,  every mother's son .
by this marriage ,  all little jealousies ,  which now seem great ,  and all great fears ,  which now import their dangers ,  would then be nothing .
is it a true thing ?
romeo he cries aloud, ‘hold, friends!
quite dumb?
why ,  then he’ll say we stabbed him sleeping .
is he not able to discharge the money ?
read the will; we'll hear it ,  antony .
i do entreat your grace to pardon me.
and must she die for this ?
touch me not so near .
he's now in florence .
how say you to that ,  malvolio ?
the king my father ?
let us be sacrificers ,  but not butchers ,  caius .
it is determined ,  not concluded yet; but so it must be if the king miscarry .
not for thy fairy kingdom . —fairies ,  away !
whip him ,  fellows ,  till like a boy ,  you see him cringe his face and whine aloud for mercy .
a halter gratis; nothing else ,  for god's sake !
great god of heaven ,  say amen to all !
now could i, casca, name to thee a man most like this dreadful night, that thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars as doth the lion in the capitol, a man no mightier than thyself or me in personal action, yet prodigious grown and fearful, as these strange eruptions are.
their shadows seem a canopy most fatal ,  under which our army lies ,  ready to give up the ghost .
moved ,  ”  in good time .
yet marked i where the bolt of cupid fell .
more ,  domitius: my lord desires you presently .
i hear it by the way, but i will send.
there's such divinity doth hedge a king that treason can but peep to what it would ,  acts little of his will .
will you know them then?
but here my father comes .
are you a married man or a bachelor?
yet i have not seen so likely an ambassador of love .
well ,  happiness to their sheets !
didst hear her speak ?
in what, my dear lord?
come ,  my lord .
it is captain macmorris ,  is it not ?
no ,  sir .
now near enough; your leavy screens throw down, and show like those you are.
true or false ,  it hath made thee earl of gloucester .
so much for him.
even so .
here is a friar that trembles ,  sighs ,  and weeps .
heaven bless us !
i take it much unkindly that thou ,  iago ,  who hast had my purse as if the strings were thine ,  shouldst know of this .
i know you not .
he wore his beaver up .
bestow this place on us a little while.
still be ’t yours .
i will weep .
yes ,  that thou didst .
a peevish school boy ,  worthless of such honor ,  join'd with a masker and a reveller !
i have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins that almost freezes up the heat of life .
rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
i swoon almost with fear .
the heavens forbid but that our loves and comforts should increase ,  even as our days do grow .
how ?
but to be frank ,  and give it thee again .
ay ,  biddy ,  come with me . —what ,  man !
save yourself ,  my lord .
question your grace the late ambassadors with what great state he heard their embassy ,  how well supplied with noble counselors ,  how modest in exception ,  and withal how terrible in constant resolution ,  and you shall find his vanities forespent were but the outside of the roman brutus ,  covering discretion with a coat of folly ,  as gardeners do with ordure hide those roots that shall first spring and be most delicate .
that you have wronged me doth appear in this: you have condemned and noted lucius pella for taking bribes here of the sardians ,  wherein my letters ,  praying on his side because i knew the man ,  were slighted off .
with no sauce that can be devised to it .
now ,  good sir ,  what are you ?
the ocean, overpeering of his list, eats not the flats with more impetuous haste than young laertes, in a riotous head, o'erbears your offices.
i know that virtue to be in you ,  brutus ,  as well as i do know your outward favor .
what watchful cares do interpose themselves betwixt your eyes and night ?
he wish'd today our enterprise might thrive.
what man is there so much unreasonable, if you had pleas'd to have defended it with any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty to urge the thing held as a ceremony?
ay ,  my lord ,  an ’t please you .
and of women .
tis but thy name that is my enemy .
a sail, a sail!
moreover ,  he hath left you all his walks ,  his private arbors and new - planted orchards ,  on this side tiber .
no blown ambition doth our arms incite ,  but love—dear love ! —and our aged father’s right .
get you gone ,  you dwarf; you minimus ,  of hind'ring knot - grass made; you bead ,  you acorn .
call me but love ,  and i'll be new baptiz'd; henceforth i never will be romeo .
away!
is ’t so ,  indeed ?
and there she shall at friar lawrence' cell be shrived and married .
run when you will; the story shall be changed: apollo flies, and daphne holds the chase; the dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind makes speed to catch the tiger; bootless speed, when cowardice pursues and valour flies.
macbeth !
a jealous hood ,  a jealous hood !
what tributaries follow him to rome ,  to grace in captive bonds his chariot - wheels ?
i pray you ,  have a continent forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower .
o, i cry you mercy!
it is not ,  nor it cannot come to ,  good .
leave me with haste.
his antique sword ,  rebellious to his arm ,  lies where it falls ,  repugnant to command .
now old desire doth in his deathbed lie ,  and young affection gapes to be his heir; that fair for which love groan'd for and would die ,  with tender juliet match'd ,  is now not fair .
with what persuasion did he tempt thy love ?
farewell, cicero.
is it good-den?
merciful powers ,  restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature gives way to in repose !
shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit, and look on death itself!
it was well done ,  and thou shalt sleep again; i will not hold thee long .
i am to blame to be thus waited for.
i’ll call upon you straight .
it would become me as well as it does you ,  and i should do it with much more ease ,  for my good will is to it and yours it is against .
no .
no ,  this my hand will rather the multitudinous seas incarnadine ,  making the green one red .
doubtful it stood, as two spent swimmers that do cling together and choke their art.
whilst you were here o'erwhelmèd with your grief— a passion most resulting such a man— cassio came hither .
believe me, king of shadows, i mistook.
is there more toil?
this comes too near the praising of myself ,  therefore ,  no more of it: hear other things .
i warrant it will .
good fool ,  as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand ,  help me to a candle ,  and pen ,  ink ,  and paper .
nor i .
come ,  warble ,  come .
he would not ?
that is hot ice and wondrous strange snow .
tranio hits you now .
i’ll pull thee by the lesser legs .
you shall have wine enough ,  my lord ,  anon .
marry ,  once before he won it of me with false dice .
knock ,  knock !
i do lack some part of that quick spirit that is in antony .
how fares my juliet ?
you are welcome .
i spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack .
no, by this heavenly light!
we’ll wait upon your lordship .
and thus she moans, videlicet:— asleep, my love?
what art thou that usurp'st this time of night ,  together with that fair and warlike form in which the majesty of buried denmark did sometimes march ?
my husband then?
yes ,  i am .
if we do meet again ,  we'll smile indeed; if not ,  'tis true this parting was well made .
look ,  love ,  what envious streaks do lace the severing clouds in yonder east .
good countrymen ,  let me depart alone ,  and ,  for my sake ,  stay here with antony .
ay, sir, all this is so.
as the time ,  the place ,  and the condition of this country stands ,  i could heartily wish this had not befallen .
what have i done, that thou darest wag thy tongue in noise so rude against me?
so tell them ,  publius .
what place ?
fetch desdemona hither.
he’s in arthur’s bosom ,  if ever man went to arthur’s bosom .
drunk?
not i ,  sir .
a cry more tuneable was never holla'd to ,  nor cheer'd with horn ,  in crete ,  in sparta ,  nor in thessaly .
nay ,  go not back .
hence!
thieves !
you are a merry man ,  sir .
i do remember an apothecary, and hereabouts he dwells, which late i noted in tatt'red weeds, with overwhelming brows, culling of simples.
if there be cords or knives ,  poison or fire ,  or suffocating streams ,  i'll not endure it .
is't lost?
i pro -  test unto thee— good heart ,  and i’ faith i will tell her as much .
is thy master coming ?
with robbers' hands my hospitable favors you should not ruffle thus .
i know you of old .
by heaven, he echoes me, as if there were some monster in his thought too hideous to be shown.
i could not forget you ,  for i never saw you before in all my life .
sir ,  a word ere you go .
to gonzalo] the air breathes upon us here most [to gonzalo] the air breathes upon us here most sweetly .
on thy love ,  i charge thee .
if thou would have such a one ,  take me .
lord ,  how it looks about !
he hath a heart as sound as a bell ,  and his tongue is the clapper ,  for what his heart thinks ,  his tongue speaks .
a charge we bear i’ th’ war ,  and as the president of my kingdom will appear there for a man .
my lord ,  you know i love you .
ay my lord ,  so you will not o'errule me to a peace .
drunk ?
him and his worth and our great need of him you have right well conceited.
where have you been gadding?
i thank it ,  poor fool ,  it keeps on the windy side of care .
and yet ,  to say the truth ,  reason and love keep little company together nowadays .
it would be spoke to .
to him, father.
there art thou happy.
what tidings can you tell me of my lord ?
where is he ?
live ,  brutus !
that a woman conceived me ,  i thank her .
poor desdemon!
lead off this ground, and let's make further search for my poor son.
what says he of our marriage ?
i did enact julius caesar .
what ,  have you dined at home ?
how long hath she been thus?
shall kate be my wife ?
fare you well .
most mighty duke ,  vouchsafe me speak a word .
tis marvel ,  but that you are but newly come ,  you might have heard it else proclaimed about .
for naught so vile that on the earth doth live but to the earth some special good doth give .
nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth; for the four winds blow in from every coast renowned suitors, and her sunny locks hang on her temples like a golden fleece; which makes her seat of belmont, colchos' strand, and many jasons come in quest of her.
so i did, fearing to strengthen that impatience which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal hoping it was but an effect of humor, which sometime hath his hour with every man.
i tell you yet again ,  banquo's buried; he cannot come out on's grave .
that you should think we come not to offend ,  but with good will .
hie thee ,  slave .
i humbly thank your ladyship.
tis even so .
not sick ,  my lord ,  unless it be in mind; nor well ,  unless in mind: his letter there will show you his estate .
and all the faith ,  the virtue of my heart ,  the object and the pleasure of mine eye ,  is only helena .
do you intend it ?
wilt thou let him, my lord?
ay ,  dread queen .
the gallows - maker; for that frame outlives a thousand tenants .
now ,  fair befall thee ,  good petruchio !
and this may help to thicken other proofs that do demonstrate thinly .
no ,  you shall paint when you are old .
but were i not the better part made mercy ,  i should not seek an absent argument of my revenge ,  thou present .
no marvel though she pause; they can be meek that have no other cause .
very easily possible .
security gives way to conspiracy.
faith ,  here’s an english tailor come hither for stealing out of a french hose .
if i do live ,  i will be good to thee .
all torment ,  trouble ,  wonder ,  and amazement inhabits here .
he has deserved it ,  were it carbuncled like holy phoebus’ car .
ah ,  that good kent— he said it would be thus ,  poor banished man .
o sweet bully bottom!
god save you ,  sir !
let her be thine ,  for we have no such daughter ,  nor shall ever see that face of hers again .
the poet's eye ,  in a fine frenzy rolling ,  doth glance from heaven to earth ,  from earth to heaven; and as imagination bodies forth the forms of things unknown ,  the poet's pen turns them to shapes ,  and gives to airy nothing a local habitation and a name .
look what i speak ,  or do ,  or think to do ,  you are still crossing it .
this only is the witchcraft i have used .
he therefore sends you ,  meeter for your spirit ,  this tun of treasure ,  and ,  in lieu of this ,  desires you let the dukedoms that you claim hear no more of you .
to trinculo] stand farther .
my sister may receive it much more worse to have her gentleman abused ,  assaulted for following her affairs . —put in his legs .
i' faith ,  or i either ?
are his wits safe ?
o sir ,  content you .
but there is ,  sir ,  an eyrie of children ,  little eyases ,  that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for ’t .
get thee to a nunnery .
and let us swear our resolution.
is he well shipp'd?
they are not near my conscience .
very gladly.
know thus far north .
tis a day such as the day is when the sun is hid .
sir ,  they are spoken ,  and these things are true .
i know his trumpet.
you shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to do .
but soft !
turn thy back and run ?
i'll follow thee ,  and make a heaven of hell ,  to die upon the hand i love so well .
who would do so?
stay ,  gentle helena .
your tributary drops belong to woe ,  which you ,  mistaking ,  offer up to joy .
you blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
romeo ?
fie, my lord, fie!
yea, art thou there?
an if i be ,  sir ,  is it any offense ?
o ,  behold ,  the riches of the ship is come on shore !
give me your present to one master bassanio ,  who indeed gives rare new liveries .
you, mistress, all this coil is 'long of you.
upon the heath .
where is your husband ?
if we shadows have offended ,  think but this ,  and all is mended ,  that you have but slumber'd here while these visions did appear .
let our just censures attend the true event ,  and put we on industrious soldiership .
leave you your power to draw ,  and i shall have no power to follow you .
persever ,  counterfeit sad looks ,  make mouths upon me when i turn my back ,  wink each at other ,  hold the sweet jest up— this sport ,  well carried ,  shall be chronicled .
fed with the same food ,  hurt with the same weapons ,  subject to the same diseases ,  healed by the same means ,  warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer as a christian is ?
what devil art thou that dost torment me thus?
i' faith ,  he’ll have a lusty widow now that shall be wooed and wedded in a day .
it is ,  my lord .
what do you think of me ?
heavens thank you for ’t !
nor i ,  my lord ,  in faith .
caesar and antony have ever won more in their officer than person .
i wish your horses swift and sure of foot, and so i do commend you to their backs.
do so ,  and bid my sweet prepare to chide .
who comes with her?
but who comes here ?
well, we will leave you then till dinner-time.
what devil was't that thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman - blind ?
moreover that we much did long to see you ,  the need we have to use you did provoke our hasty sending .
antony will use his affection where it is .
how much i had to do to calm his rage.
what, jealous oberon!
the best and soundest of his time hath been but rash .
am i like such a fellow ?
farewell .
within this three mile may you see it coming; i say ,  a moving grove .
no ,  but to the gate ,  and there will the devil meet me like an old cuckold with horns on his head ,  and say ,   “ get you to heaven ,  beatrice ,  get you to heaven; here’s no place for you maids .  ”  so deliver i up my apes and away to saint peter .
i will be bitter with him and passing short .
what should he be ?
therefore prepare you .
in great measure .
prithee ,  peace .
my liege ,  this was my glove; here is the fellow of it .
is there any way to show such friendship ?
why, the honest men.
by my knavery (if i had it) ,  then i were .
i am mightily abused .
and yet no further than a wanton’s bird ,  that lets it hop a little from his hand like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves ,  and with a silken thread plucks it back again ,  so loving - jealous of his liberty .
not a dump we !
farewell !
a beggar ,  brother ?
i am myself indifferent honest, but yet i could accuse me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.
i'll pay that doctrine ,  or else die in debt .
that you should here repent you ,  the actors are at hand ,  and by their show you shall know all that you are like to know .
by jesu ,  a very good blade !
look!
angels are bright still ,  though the brightest fell .
i’ll not meddle with him .
bring me the fairest creature northward born ,  where phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles ,  and let us make incision for your love ,  to prove whose blood is reddest ,  his ,  or mine .
we will, we will!
thus goes everyone to the world but i ,  and i am sunburnt .
we all stand up against the spirit of caesar, and in the spirit of men there is no blood.
ay, let the county take you in your bed!
aside to antonio] the next advantage [aside to antonio] the next advantage will we take throughly .
you can play no part but pyramus; for pyramus is a sweet - faced man; a proper man ,  as one shall see in a summer's day; a most lovely gentleman - like man; therefore you must needs play pyramus .
thy garments are not spotted with our blood ,  nor thou within the compass of my curse .
alas ,  why gnaw you so your nether lip ?
there's many a beast then in a populous city ,  and many a civil monster .
we will meet ,  and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously .
this courtesy ,  forbid thee ,  shall the duke instantly know ,  and of that letter too .
tis a hooded valor ,  and when it appears ,  it will bate .
i think withal there would be hands uplifted in my right; and here from gracious england have i offer of goodly thousands.
nay ,  had i power ,  i should pour the sweet milk of concord into hell ,  uproar the universal peace ,  confound all unity on earth .
now am i dead .
no, it begins again.
then ,  in god’s name ,  march .
no jewel is like rosalind .
hear me for my cause, and be silent, that you may hear.
raise all my kindred .
a surgeon!
o ,  then i see queen mab hath been with you .
have you a soul or sense ?
nay, but ophelia— pray you, mark.
there was a pretty redness in his lip ,  a little riper and more lusty red than that mixed in his cheek: ’twas just the difference betwixt the constant red and mingled damask .
but where’s the money ?
come on ,  sir .
maria once told me she did affect me ,  and i have heard herself come thus near ,  that ,  should she fancy ,  it should be one of my complexion .
a noble duke ,  in nature as in name .
thy dæmon—that thy spirit which keeps thee—is noble ,  courageous ,  high ,  unmatchable where caesar’s is not .
is that the naked fellow ?
what should that bode ?
how long hast thou been a grave - maker ?
and we understand him well ,  how he comes o'er us with our wilder days ,  not measuring what use we made of them .
out upon it, old carrion!
he lies not like the living .
i will tell you why .
this green plot shall be our stage ,  this hawthorn - brake our tiring - house; and we will do it in action ,  as we will do it before the duke .
there if i grow ,  the harvest is your own .
emilia ,  run you to the citadel and tell my lord and lady what hath happed . — will you go on afore ?
what ,  my dear lady disdain !
you are welcome ,  sir ,  to cyprus .
help !
what have you done ,  my lord ,  with the dead body ?
i told you ,  sir ,  they were red - hot with drinking ,  so full of valor that they smote the air for breathing in their faces ,  beat the ground for kissing of their feet—yet always bending towards their project .
he was quick mettle when he went to school .
right ,  i mean you .
o, speak again, bright angel!
and private in his chamber pens himself ,  shuts up his windows ,  locks fair daylight out ,  and makes himself an artificial night .
this ,  in obedience ,  hath my daughter shown me; and more above ,  hath his solicitings ,  as they fell out by time ,  by means ,  and place ,  all given to mine ear .
then will i give you the serving - creature .
sweet saint ,  for charity ,  be not so curst .
he is now as valiant as hercules that only tells a lie and swears it .
what other bond than secret romans that have spoke the word and will not palter ?
do you like this haste ?
a rhyme i learn'd even now of one i danc'd withal .
but i pray you, sir, are you fast married?
or if not so ,  then here i hit it right: our romeo hath not been in bed tonight .
give the word ,  ho ,  and stand .
come ,  let's do so; for every minute is expectancy of more arrivance .
i think she stirs again .
all the world desires her .
but i can -  not choose but weep ,  to think they would lay him i' the cold ground .
she is persuaded i will marry her ,  out of her own love and flattery ,  not out of my promise .
now ,  my dearest queen— pray you ,  stand farther from me .
go charge agrippa plant those that have revolted in the vant ,  that antony may seem to spend his fury upon himself .
of what kind should this cock come of ?
is this a holiday ?
o heavens forfend!
not being the worst stands in some rank of praise .
the dead man's knell is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives expire before the flowers in their caps, dying or ere they sicken.
make assay.
be factious for redress of all these griefs, and i will set this foot of mine as far as who goes farthest.
this night i hold an old accustom'd feast, whereto i have invited many a guest, such as i love; and you among the store, one more, most welcome, makes my number more.
my strange and self - abuse is the initiate fear that wants hard use .
here .
god bless your worship !
these are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i' the alehouse.
tis dangerous to be spoken .
truly ,  my name is cinna .
o my dear gertrude, this, like to a murdering-piece, in many places gives me superfluous death.
where we are ,  there’s daggers in men’s smiles .
adieu .
fetch me this herb ,  and be thou here again ere the leviathan can swim a league .
not i.
here is your husband ,  like a mildew'd ear blasting his wholesome brother .
but come ,  your bergomask .
had i not four or five women once that tended me ?
none in the world; nor do i know the man.
a common slave—you know him well by sight— held up his left hand, which did flame and burn like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand, not sensible of fire, remain'd unscorch'd.
fears and scruples shake us .
thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate.
why ,  with my lord ,  madam .
she had a song of  “ willow ,  ”  an old thing ’twas ,  but it expressed her fortune and she died singing it .
hold off your hands !
signior brabantio ,  ho !
i know him now .
safely stow'd .
my lord ,  there needs no such apology .
some achieve greatness— ”  what sayest thou ?
o murderous slave!
gentlemen, can any of you tell me where i may find the young romeo?
do you know me ,  father ?
how is’t with you ,  sir ?
this was a way to thrive, and he was blest; and thrift is blessing, if men steal it not.
and do but see his vice; 'tis to his virtue a just equinox, the one as long as the other.
o fair katherine ,  if you will love me soundly with your french heart ,  i will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with your english tongue .
i dare lay any money ’twill be nothing yet .
for your intent in going back to school in wittenberg ,  it is most retrograde to our desire; and we beseech you ,  bend you to remain here in the cheer and comfort of our eye ,  our chiefest courtier ,  cousin ,  and our son .
do you not come your tardy son to chide ,  that ,  lapsed in time and passion ,  lets go by the important acting of your dread command ?
with all my heart ,  good youth .
aboard ,  aboard ,  for shame !
what is't you do ?
biondello ,  what of that ?
it is so .
be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd, bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell, be thy intents wicked or charitable, thou comest in such a questionable shape that i will speak to thee.
it was divided between her heart and lips .
heard you of nothing strange about the streets ?
pray you come in .
have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
make you a wholesome answer .
lady ,  will you walk a bout with your friend ?
good my lord!
unarm ,  eros .
from this time forth i never will speak word.
love?
lay her i' the earth; and from her fair and unpolluted flesh may violets spring!
i think our father will hence tonight .
marry ,  go before to field ,  he'll be your follower !
so may the outward shows be least themselves; the world is still deceiv'd with ornament .
i will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways .
but ships are but boards ,  sailors but men: there be land - rats and water - rats ,  land - thieves and water - thieves; i mean ,  pirates; and then ,  there is the peril of waters ,  winds ,  and rocks .
i am sure ,  the duke will never grant this forfeiture to hold .
old lord, i cannot blame thee, who am myself attached with weariness, to th’ dulling of my spirits.
tis very strange .
no ,  cassius ,  no .
o dear discretion ,  how his words are suited !
damned fact!
rebellious subjects, enemies to peace, profaners of this neighbour-stained steel— will they not hear?
i do believe you think what now you speak; but what we do determine oft we break .
age ,  thou art shamed !
cassius ,  what night is this !
why ,  she was dead ere thou wast born .
i would it might be hangers till then.
go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.
reputation ,  reputation ,  reputation !
bring me to him.
not when i saw ’t .
was that mine?
out upon it ,  old carrion !
how cheer'st thou, jessica?
untimely comes this hurt .
yet ,  i beseech you ,  if you think fit ,  or that it may be done ,  give me advantage of some brief discourse with desdemona alone .
why ,  how now ?
the courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword, the expectancy and rose of the fair state, the glass of fashion and the mould of form, the observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
call philostrate.
i embrace it .
why ,  sir ,  i gave the money for the rope .
thou an egyptian puppet shalt be shown in rome ,  as well as i .
shake it off .
do not run away .
nay, i beseech you, sir, be not out with me; yet, if you be out, sir, i can mend you.
all hail, macbeth!
farewell ! —god knows when we shall meet again .
he has brave utensils—for so he calls them— which when he has a house ,  he’ll deck withal .
i saw othello’s visage in his mind ,  and to his honors and his valiant parts did i my soul and fortunes consecrate .
one word more, good lady.
go a little before.
what was the second noise for ?
ay ,  to the proof ,  as mountains are for winds ,  that shakes not ,  though they blow perpetually .
and i the king shall love thee .
o perjured woman!
how long hath this possession held the man ?
what ,  has this thing appeared again tonight ?
very good ,  my lord .
lechery ,  sir ,  it provokes and unprovokes .
only foul words ,  and thereupon i will kiss thee .
he was the wretched’st thing when he was young ,  so long a - growing and so leisurely ,  that if this rule were true ,  he should be gracious .
nay ,  how will you do for a husband ?
ay, my lord.
for a taste: if a hart do lack a hind ,  let him seek out rosalind .
i have some rights of memory in this kingdom, which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
had i as many mouths as hydra, such an answer would stop them all.
i shall ,  my lord .
perdition catch my soul but i do love thee !
an if they live ,  i hope i need not fear .
puppet ”  ?
and when shalt thou see him again ?
to move is to stir ,  and to be valiant is to stand .
both your majesties might, by the sovereign power you have of us, put your dread pleasures more into command than to entreaty.
pitiful sight !
all dead .
your nymphs ,  called naiads of the wandering brooks ,  with your sedged crowns and over - harmless looks ,  leave your crisp channels and on this green land answer your summons; juno does command .
i feared he did but trifle and meant to wreck thee .
find you out a bed ,  for i upon this bank will rest my head .
no less?
either be patient and entreat me fair ,  or with the clamorous report of war thus will i drown your exclamations .
god’s benison go with you and with those that would make good of bad and friends of foes .
will you walk in to see their gossiping ?
comes his army on ?
what ,  not a word ?
against all rules of nature ,  and must be driven to find out practices of cunning hell why this should be .
draw thy tool !
it is not very strange; for my uncle is king of denmark ,  and those that would make mows at him while my father lived give twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little .
what, a play toward!
it is not madness that i have utt'red.
if we offend, it is with our good will.
be better suited .
the taper burneth in your closet, sir.
my dear-lov'd cousin, and my dearer lord?
this is some monster of the isle with four legs ,  who hath got ,  as i tak it ,  an ague .
no, my lord.
tell me, good brutus, can you see your face?
no ,  antony ,  take the lot .
what time?
i must with haste from hence .
art thou a man ?
hold off thy hand .
what!
he is unqualitied with very shame .
nurse ,  commend me to thy lady and mistress .
behold her well; i pray you, look upon her.
to gonzalo] first, noble friend, [to gonzalo] first, noble friend, let me embrace thine age, whose honour cannot be measured or confined.
do you mark that?
if you had known the virtue of the ring ,  or half her worthiness that gave the ring ,  or your own honour to contain the ring ,  you would not then have parted with the ring .
a pox of drowning thyself !
fair lovers, you are fortunately met; of this discourse we more will hear anon.
tut ,  i have the best armor of the world .
i will not entertain so bad a thought .
tennis balls ,  my liege .
and to that end we wished your lordship here t' avoid the censures of the carping world .
where art thou now ?
o happy dagger ,  this is thy sheath .
a pox of drowning thyself!
where's potpan, that he helps not to take away?
i would know that .
caesar, 'tis strucken eight.
very good .
you have not been abed ,  then ?
nor ever heard ,  nor ever did suspect .
never ,  my lord .
no ,  faith ,  my lord .
more torches here !
i do not bid the thunder - bearer shoot ,  nor tell tales of thee to high - judging jove .
but i'll set down the pegs that make this music ,  as honest as i am .
she’s dead ,  my queen .
he breathes ,  my lord .
wherefore’s this noise ?
i prithee ,  let thy wife attend on her ,  and bring them after in the best advantage .
my noble partner you greet with present grace and great prediction of noble having and of royal hope ,  that he seems rapt withal .
what ,  ho ,  brabantio !
but if these ,  as i am sure they do ,  bear fire enough to kindle cowards and to steel with valor the melting spirits of women ,  then ,  countrymen ,  what need we any spur but our own cause to prick us to redress ?
what’s the matter here ?
was ever book containing such vile matter so fairly bound ?
hark, they roar!
romeo will answer it .
good lads, how do ye both?
why do we wrap the gentleman in our more rawer breath ?
o dear discretion, how his words are suited!
romeo shall thank thee ,  daughter ,  for us both .
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder .
are we all met?
i have used it ,  nuncle ,  ever since thou madest thy daughters thy mothers .
myself have to mine own turn'd enemy .
and i am brutus ,  marcus brutus ,  i; brutus ,  my country's friend; know me for brutus !
look to't, i charge you.
will you hear me, roderigo?
your statue spouting blood in many pipes ,  90 in which so many smiling romans bathed ,  signifies that from you great rome shall suck reviving blood ,  and that great men shall press for tinctures ,  stains ,  relics ,  and cognizance .
no watch?
none ,  my lord ,  but that the world's grown honest .
what dost thou say ?
let us withdraw .
i mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
what means this jest ?
i took him to be killed with a thunder - stroke .
question: why ,  an hour in clamor and a quarter in rheum .
where is the horse that doth untread again ,  his tedious measures with the unbated fire ,  that he did pace them first ?
front to front bring thou this fiend of scotland and myself .
who is that calls so coldly ?
though it be honest ,  it is never good to bring bad news .
no ,  sir .
he had a kind of taste . —well ,  my conscience says ,   “ launcelot ,  budge not .  ”   “ budge !  ”  says the fiend .
why do you speak to me ?
farewell ,  father .
for i will make him tell the tale anew where ,  how ,  how oft ,  how long ago ,  and when he hath ,  and is again to cope your wife .
ay ,  too gentle .
not that i think you did not love your father, but that i know love is begun by time, and that i see, in passages of proof, time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
a good moral ,  my lord: it is not enough to speak ,  but to speak true .
you know not what you do .
i have seen the day that with this little arm and this good sword i have made my way through more impediments than twenty times your stop.
in himself he is .
o gertrude, come away!
that by proscription and bills of outlawry ,  octavius ,  antony ,  and lepidus have put to death an hundred senators .
the boy was the very staff of my age ,  my very prop .
how died my master ,  strato ?
remember thee?
confess ? —handkerchief ? —o devil !
dead art thou, dead!
the sister to my wife ,  this gentlewoman ,  thy son by this hath married .
god's bread !
i do not well understand that .
there's matter in these sighs.
heaven doth truly know it.
to alonso] how fares my gracious sir?
bring a corollary ,  rather than want a spirit .
is that the law ?
i have almost forgot the taste of fears .
o antony ,  thou mine of bounty ,  how wouldst thou have paid my better service ,  when my turpitude thou dost so crown with gold !
why hath thy queen summoned me hither to this short - grassed green ?
i will not desire that .
we shall not spend a large expense of time before we reckon with your several loves ,  and make us even with you .
the prince and claudio promised by this hour to visit me . —you know your office ,  brother .
who's there?
come ho ,  and wake diana with a hymn !
a shall recover his wits there; or ,  if a do not ,  'tis no great matter there .
but is he often thus?
to tell you where he lodges ,  is to tell you where i lie .
nay, in all confidence, he's not for rhodes.
i would you had won the fleece that he hath lost !
this wind you talk of blows us from ourselves.
speak not .
i understand moreover ,  upon the rialto ,  he hath a third at mexico ,  a fourth for england ,  and other ventures he hath squandered abroad .
may not one speak?
one.
go to your rest .
vex not his prescience .
you cloudy princes and heart - sorrowing peers that bear this heavy mutual load of moan ,  now cheer each other in each other’s love .
good margaret ,  run thee to the parlor .
ay .
pleaseth you walk with me down to his house ,  i will discharge my bond and thank you too .
why ?
at a word ,  i am not .
remember it ,  my lord ?
here’s our own hands against our hearts .
this is no answer, thou unfeeling man, to excuse the current of thy cruelty.
henceforward do your messages yourself .
that hath made him mad .
as great to me as late .
thou liest ,  thou thread ,  thou thimble ,  thou yard ,  three - quarters ,  half - yard ,  quarter ,  nail !
i fear'd he did but trifle and meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
truly ,  sir ,  all that i live by is with the awl; i meddle with no tradesman's matters ,  nor women's matters ,  but with awl .
the ground indeed is tawny.
think it no more.
leave you !
o cruel !
show me which way .
he, when he hears of her, cannot refrain from the excess of laughter.
will you two help to hasten them ?
amen ,  amen ,  to that fair prayer say i; and then end life when i end loyalty !
well said ,  old mole !
give me your hand first .
go to; well said ,  well said .
whither are you going ?
no ,  no !
i thank thee ,  ariel .
let us bear him  to th’ court of guard .
a match !
let this be so .
will you be patient?
i wonder that you will still be talking ,  signor benedick .
go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
you english princes all ,  i do salute you .
gentlemen, let's look to our business.
how happy some o'er other some can be!
let it fall rather ,  though the fork invade the region of my heart .
why ,  then ,  tomorrow i cannot serve your turn for rosalind ?
lie thou there .
well, we were born to die.
thisbe !
that will be ere the set of sun .
demand .
she rendered life ,  thy name so buried in her .
this must be known; which ,  being kept close ,  might move more grief to hide than hate to utter love .
there is a play tonight before the king.
o my sweet, i prattle out of fashion, and i dote in mine own comforts.
you shall not come to them.
i have done .
the french is gone off ,  look you ,  and there is gallant and most prave passages .
sir toby will be sworn that i am no fox ,  but he will not pass his word for two pence that you are no fool .
i am very sorry that you are not well.
a sail .
ay, desdemona.
it is not moonlight now .
out alas!
i do never use it .
let me not burst in ignorance ,  but tell why thy canonized bones ,  hearsed in death ,  have burst their cerements ,  why the sepulchre wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd ,  hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws to cast thee up again .
when remedies are past ,  the griefs are ended by seeing the worst ,  which late on hopes depended .
you were best knock louder .
here ,  my good lord .
what likelihood?
if i could make that resemble something in me—softly !
i would not see ’t .
no.
nothing ,  madam .
set we our squadrons on yond side o’ th’ hill ,  in eye of caesar’s battle ,  from which place we may the number of the ships behold and so proceed accordingly .
i am dead, horatio.
tis caesar that you mean ,  is it not ,  cassius ?
a plague o’ both your houses!
why ,  that's my dainty ariel !
what ,  are you mad ?
sit down and rest .
she is dead.
masters ,  play here ,  i will content your pains .
see how they kiss and court !
my son came then into my mind ,  and yet my mind was then scarce friends with him .
farewell .
gower is a good captain ,  and is good knowledge and literatured in the wars .
let’s make us med'cines of our great revenge ,  to cure this deadly grief .
good ursula ,  wake my cousin beatrice and desire her to rise .
thou shalt serve me .
i pray you bring me on the way a little and say if i shall see you soon at night .
sirrah ,  i’ll teach thee a speech .
why, antony.
i charge thee ,  hence ,  and do not haunt me thus .
thou hast a lady far more beautiful than any woman in this waning age .
why ,  friends ,  you go to do you know not what .
i am very glad of it: i'll plague him; i'll torture him; i am glad of it .
he's gone ,  he's kill'd ,  he's dead !
now i begin: imprimis ,  we came down a foul hill ,  my master riding behind my mistress— both of one horse ?
marry ,  this it is ,  sir .
the spring ,  the summer ,  the childing autumn ,  angry winter change their wonted liveries ,  and the mazèd world ,  by their increase ,  now knows not which is which .
it is concluded: banquo, thy soul's flight, if it find heaven, must find it out tonight.
what error drives our eyes and ears amiss ?
i confess it is my shame to be so fond, but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
peace ,  peace !
angels and ministers of grace defend us !
well, susan is with god; she was too good for me.
she is herself a dowry .
i make not ,  but foresee .
if partially affined, or leagued in office, thou dost deliver more or less than truth, thou art no soldier.
you rascal!
you cannot speak of reason to the dane ,  and lose your voice .
away ,  go !
but ,  first or last ,  your fine egyptian cookery shall have the fame .
nay ,  come ,  i pray you ,  sir ,  give me the chain .
abide within.
is he not jealous ?
if he do fear god ,  he must necessarily keep peace .
thou know’st we work by wit and not by witchcraft ,  and wit depends on dilatory time .
antonio ,  i arrest thee at the suit of count orsino .
we have willing dames enough .
the very same .
why ,  whose is it ?
why, no; the day had broke before we parted.
o cassius ,  i am sick of many griefs .
we'll have a speech straight .
good madam!
how likes gremio these quick - witted folks ?
i doubt it is no other but the main: his father’s death and our o'erhasty marriage .
besides—i ha' not since put up my sword— against the capitol i met a lion ,  who glared upon me and went surly by ,  without annoying me .
i weigh it lightly ,  were it heavier .
they met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together .
if thou beest prospero ,  give us particulars of thy preservation; how thou hast met us here ,  who three hours since were wrecked upon this shore; where i have lost— how sharp the point of this remembrance is ! — my dear son ferdinand .
and will you give me leave ?
know you where you are ,  sir ?
fain would i dwell on form, fain, fain deny what i have spoke; but farewell complement!
but my revenge will come .
i have words to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of the matter .
why ,  shall we turn to men ?
a bitter fool .
when were you wont to be so full of songs ,  sirrah ?
is caesar yet gone to the capitol ?
why dost thou use me thus ?
prithee ,  peace .
true ,  madam .
where got'st thou that goose look?
farewell ,  for i must leave you .
so farewell to you both .
why are you grown so rude?
remember thee?
it appears ,  by his small light of discretion ,  that he is in the wane; but yet ,  in courtesy ,  in all reason ,  we must stay the time .
ready to go ,  but never to return .
hark ,  hark !
he would not take the crown; therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.
i learned it in england, where indeed they are most potent in potting.
i hope all will be well .
but come what sorrow can ,  it cannot countervail the exchange of joy that one short minute gives me in her sight .
o harry’s wife ,  triumph not in my woes !
we shall ,  my liege .
shylock is my name.
why ,  i said nothing .
such tricks hath strong imagination that ,  if it would but apprehend some joy ,  it comprehends some bringer of that joy; or in the night ,  imagining some fear ,  how easy is a bush supposed a bear ?
proceed you in your tears .
fairer than tongue can name thee ,  let me have some patient leisure to excuse myself .
come ,  put mine armor on .
if a man’s brains were in ’s heels ,  were ’t not in danger of kibes ?
custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
he embraces gonzalo] [he embraces gonzalo] whither this be or be not, i'll not swear.
my love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  fair helena !
assume a virtue if you have it not .
i never saw a woman ,  but only sycorax my dam and she .
how now ,  balthasar ?
sleep thou, and i will wind thee in my arms.
good enobarbus ,  ’tis a worthy deed ,  and shall become you well ,  to entreat your captain to soft and gentle speech .
or else were this a savage spectacle.
o me ,  lieutenant !
who is't that can inform me ?
what think’st thou then of stanley ?
i pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep; it may be i shall raise you by and by on business to my brother cassius.
to threaten me with death is most unlawful .
what kind of god art thou ,  that suffer’st more of mortal griefs than do thy worshippers ?
would katherine had never seen him ,  though !
nothing ,  neither way .
the fool hath planted in his memory an army of good words; and i do know a many fools, that stand in better place, garnish'd like him, that for a tricksy word defy the matter.
nor know i aught by me that's said or done amiss this night; unless self-charity be sometimes a vice, and to defend ourselves it be a sin when violence assails us.
what man dost thou dig it for?
go you before ,  and i will follow you .
o me !
what ,  brutus ?
i your commission will forthwith dispatch ,  and he to england shall along with you .
men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run as it were doomsday .
that’s her torment .
meaning ,  to curtsy .
yet benedick was such another ,  and now is he become a man .
and i for rosalind .
i am not barbason; you cannot conjure me .
you will not then ?
beat—
apothecary !
i was born free as caesar .
woe ,  woe for england !
did not you tell me i should know the man by the athenian garments he had on ?
such love must needs be treason in my breast.
o sweet mistress ,  speak !
i am sorry to hear this .
so all hail, macbeth and banquo!
o ,  if i thought that ,  i’d beat him like a dog !
is ’t possible ?
go get thee to thy love, as was decreed, ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her.
would you not swear ,  all you that see her ,  that she were a maid by these exterior shows ?
how now, lorenzo?
calling death ‘banishment,’ thou cut'st my head off with a golden axe and smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
good morrow ,  neighbor ,  whither away so fast ?
peace then, no words.
being done ,  there is no pause .
marry ,  my uncle clarence' angry ghost .
look, here comes helena.
none, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
now is it rome indeed, and room enough, when there is in it but one only man.
is decius brutus and trebonius there ?
let us go ,  for it is after midnight ,  and ere day we will awake him and be sure of him .
brother, i'll go and bring it thee.
you saw they speak us fair ,  give us gold .
of him ,  sir .
she is damn'd for it.
to alonso] sir ,  you may thank yourself for this [to alonso] sir ,  you may thank yourself for this great loss ,  that would not bless our europe with your daughter ,  but rather lose her to an african ,  where she ,  at least ,  is banished from your eye ,  who hath cause to wet the grief on't .
we have none such ,  sir .
o devil, devil!
more validity, more honourable state, more courtship lives in carrion flies than romeo.
am i your man ?
either thou or i ,  or both ,  must go with him .
my wife !
if e'er thou wast thyself ,  and these woes thine ,  thou and these woes were all for rosaline .
within this half hour will he be asleep .
he sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with laertes, or that you will take longer time.
by gis and by saint charity, alack, and fie for shame!
and will he not come again ?
one unperfectness shows me another ,  to make me frankly despise myself .
never was seen so black a day as this .
and, good lieutenant, i think you think i love you.
silver !
here's the smell of the blood still .
michael ,  good night .
her hair ,  what color ?
do but go after and mark how he continues .
my life will be too short ,  and every measure fail me .
folded the writ up in form of th' other ,  subscribed it ,  gave ’t th' impression ,  placed it safely ,  the changeling never known .
where learned you this ,  fool ?
a fortnight and odd days.
i have heard where many of the best respect in rome, except immortal caesar, speaking of brutus, and groaning underneath this age's yoke, have wish'd that noble brutus had his eyes.
i assure you ,  carthage .
nor i .
do you hear ,  roderigo ?
for what reason ?
what thou wouldst do is done unto thy hand .
do you come near me now ?
what is the matter there ?
three parts of him is ours already ,  and the man entire upon the next encounter yields him ours .
all’s well .
doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
you are rather point - device in your accouterments ,  as loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other .
to what end ,  my lord ?
the duke cannot deny the course of law, for the commodity that strangers have with us in venice; if it be denied, 'twill much impeach the justice of the state; since that the trade and profit of the city consisteth of all nations.
seek him ,  bid him come hither .
be as thou wast wont to be; see as thou was wont to see .
o, ho!
jove ,  jove ,  this shepherd’s passion is much upon my fashion .
o, i am slain!
by'r lady ,  thirty years .
the devil take thy soul !
to be once in doubt is to be resolved .
is it possible a cur can lend three thousand ducats ?  ”  or shall i bend low and in a bondman’s key with bated breath and whispering humbleness say this:
do; with like timorous accent and dire yell as when ,  by night and negligence ,  the fire is spied in populous cities .
who comes so fast in silence of the night?
i think it is not meet mark antony ,  so well beloved of caesar ,  should outlive caesar .
damned fact !
nothing .
the general cause?
there's a bargain made.
fellow ,  come from the throng; look upon caesar .
who’s there ?
how i have thought of this and of these times ,  i shall recount hereafter; for this present ,  i would not ,  so with love i might entreat you ,  be any further moved .
therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
speak ,  pyramus . —thisbe ,  stand forth .
seal up the mouth of outrage for a while ,  till we can clear these ambiguities and know their spring ,  their head ,  their true descent ,  and then will i be general of your woes ,  and lead you even to death .
gentlemen both ,  you will mistake each other .
i saw it in his hand: it was a handkerchief, an antique token my father gave my mother.
thy head is as full of quar rels as an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarrelling .
confusion's cure lives not in these confusions.
o mistress, villainy hath made mocks with love!
if you prick us ,  do we not bleed ?
i forget ,  but these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours ,  most busil'est ,  when i do it .
you whoreson malt - horse drudge !
nor for yours neither .
must i bouge ?
no ,  not for all the world .
at supper?
what do you mean to dote thus on such luggage ?
thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end !
why then ,  god forgive me .
for mine own part—no offense to the general, nor any man of quality—i hope to be saved.
we have sworn, my lord, already.
old cassius still .
with demetrius .
see ,  who comes here ?
brutus, my lord!
i think this tale would win my daughter too .
best of comfort ,  and ever welcome to us .
i do consent— prick him down, antony.
are you so hot ?
i know ,  iago ,  thy honesty and love doth mince this matter ,  making it light to cassio .
give o'er the play .
marry ,  sir ,  be better employed ,  and be naught awhile .
how heavy weighs my lord !
and most chirurgeonly .
mark it ,  horatio .
it is now high sup -  pertime ,  and the night grows to waste .
what, rouse thee, man!
the sun doth gild our armor .
detain no jot ,  i charge thee .
thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight .
when could they say till now ,  that talked of rome ,  that her wide walks encompassed but one man ?
this is some minx’s token ,  and i must take out the work ?
tis vile ,  unless it may be quaintly ordered ,  and better in my mind not undertook .
he is married ?
good my lord .
heaven stops the nose at it, and the moon winks; the bawdy wind, that kisses all it meets, is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth, and will not hear it.
hail!
carthage?
the other half comes to the privy coffer of the state ,  and the offender’s life lies in the mercy of the duke only 'gainst all other voice .
farewell the plumed troop and the big wars that make ambition virtue !
is't come to this?
obey ,  and go with me; for thou must die .
o heavens!
and so am i for rosalind .
he died as one that had been studied in his death to throw away the dearest thing he owed as ’twere a careless trifle .
nurse!
say ,  my spirit ,  how fares the king and's followers ?
then shall i swear to kate ,  and you to me ,  and may our oaths well kept and prosp'rous be .
he’s married to octavia .
o ,  grief hath changed me since you saw me last ,  and careful hours with time’s deformèd hand have written strange defeatures in my face .
they are entirely welcome .
thou marvell'st at my words, but hold thee still: things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
why call you for a sword ?
supper is done ,  and we shall come too late .
in happy time here comes the duke himself .
to have a foolish wife .
who could be out ,  being before his beloved mistress ?
nay ,  then— well ,  well ,  th' event .
i'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee, thou wondrous man.
we do it wrong, being so majestical, to offer it the show of violence; for it is, as the air, invulnerable, and our vain blows malicious mockery.
i pray thee ,  hear me speak .
he had a fever when he was in spain ,  and when the fit was on him ,  i did mark how he did shake .
that ?
thy lover ,       artemidorus ”  here will i stand till caesar pass along ,  and as a suitor will i give him this .
is't frailty that thus errs?
hum!
tell me ,  how fares our loving mother ?
what is, my lord?
think and die .
i would it might prove the end of his losses .
you may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar.
i have no hope that he’s undrowned .
thou art a scholar; speak to it ,  horatio .
i have a thing for you .
but to my mind ,  though i am native here and to the manner born ,  it is a custom more honored in the breach than the observance .
is it so brave as lass ?
would you had never seen him !
will you stay awhile ?
and bid her come hither .
but is this law ?
to horse ,  you gallant princes ,  straight to horse .
seek him ,  titinius ,  whilst i go to meet the noble brutus ,  thrusting this report into his ears .
i should not then ask casca what had chanced .
that is where we dined ,  where dowsabel did claim me for her husband .
and yet it is danger to make him even o'er the time he has lost .
a devil !
sure ones ,  then .
remember thee ?
very like; one of them is a plain fish, and no doubt marketable.
alas ,  my lord ,  your wisdom is consumed in confidence .
you are welcome for his sake .
o ,  what a fall was there ,  my countrymen !
what though i be not so in grace as you ,  so hung upon with love ,  so fortunate ,  but miserable most ,  to love unloved ?
here stands the man—good .
come ,  antonio .
portia ?
what a man are you !
of your philosophy you make no use, if you give place to accidental evils.
thou hast braved many men; brave not me .
what masque ,  what music ?
o, pale!
i go, and it is done: the bell invites me.
swear by my sword never to speak of this that you have heard .
need and oppression starveth in thine eyes .
honest ,  my lord ?
or that there were such men whose heads stood in their breasts?
but ,  peace !
and in this brainish apprehension kills the unseen good old man .
the fish lives in the sea ,  and 'tis much pride for fair without the fair within to hide .
a thousand thousand !
and launcelot ,  soon at supper shalt thou see lorenzo ,  who is thy new master’s guest .
yes, truly;—for, look you, the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children; therefore, i promise you i fear you.
and ,  for his passage ,  the soldiers' music and the rites of war speak loudly for him .
i will fetch off my bottle, though i be o'er ears for my labour.
o ,  let it not be so .
he ,  that caliban whom now i keep in service .
tis bootless to exclaim .
i would i were at home .
thou shalt be loggerhead.good faith,'tis day.
what masque ?
most rightful judge !
the lover ,  all as frantic ,  sees helen's beauty in a brow of egypt .
whip me ,  ye devils ,  from the possession of this heavenly sight !
hear you me ,  jessica: lock up my doors; and when you hear the drum ,  and the vile squealing of the wry - neck'd fife ,  clamber not you up to the casements then ,  nor thrust your head into the public street ,  to gaze on christian fools with varnish'd faces: but stop my house's ears ,  i mean my casements; let not the sound of shallow foppery enter my sober house . —by jacob's staff i swear ,  i have no mind of feasting forth to - night: but i will go . —go you before me ,  sirrah; say ,  i will come .
indeed i never shall be satisfied with romeo till i behold him— dead — is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd .
old lord ,  i cannot blame thee ,  who am myself attached with weariness to th' dulling of my spirits .
there lock yourself and send him word you are dead .
i would not be cured ,  youth .
come ,  civil night ,  thou sober - suited matron ,  all in black ,  and learn me how to lose a winning match played for a pair of stainless maidenhoods .
braved in mine own house with a skein of thread ?
but for all this, when i shall tread upon the tyrant's head, or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country shall have more vices than it had before, more suffer and more sundry ways than ever, by him that shall succeed.
if trembling i inhabit then ,  protest me the baby of a girl .
you swore to me when i did give it you that you would wear it till your hour of death ,  and that it should lie with you in your grave .
what say'st thou, my dear nurse?
o ,  spare my guiltless wife and my poor children ! — keeper ,  i prithee sit by me awhile .
good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much, which mannerly devotion shows in this; for saints have hands that pilgrims’ hands do touch, and palm to palm is holy palmers’ kiss.
let’s ha' ’t ,  good grumio .
i cannot think you are my son .
welcome ,  my lord .
antonio ,  gratify this gentleman ,  for ,  in my mind ,  you are much bound to him .
are not those in commission yet return'd ?
go to the pulpit, brutus.
and be not jealous on me ,  gentle brutus .
tempt him not so too far .
he can report ,  as seemeth by his plight ,  of the revolt the newest state .
be assured you may.
ay ,  marry ,  sir ,  now it begins to work .
then move not ,  while my prayer’s effect i take .
had she been true ,  if heaven would make me such another world of one entire and perfect chrysolite ,  i’d not have sold her for it .
fie ,  demetrius !
i serve the king ,  on whose employment i was sent to you .
ah ,  how much might the man deserve of me that would right her !
and you by land .
a living drollery.
for when she saw— which never shall be found—you did suspect she had disposed with caesar ,  and that your rage would not be purged ,  she sent you word she was dead .
great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure, for goodness dare not check thee.
i have fair meanings ,  sir .
this even - handed justice commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice to our own lips .
it shall be done .
come they of noble family ?
i trouble thee too much ,  but thou art willing .
out on her ,  hilding !
o noble caesar!
but this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband:—o me ,  the word choose !
it now draws toward night .
i saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool that
we shall not spend a large expense of time before we reckon with your several loves, and make us even with you.
you are welcome to elsinore .
ha ,  ha ,  ha !
you, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear the smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor, may now, perchance, both quake and tremble here, when lion rough in wildest rage doth roar.
how fares my noble lord ?
kings it makes gods ,  and meaner creatures kings .
good master mustardseed, i know your patience well.
hear me ,  queen: the strong necessity of time commands our services awhile ,  but my full heart remains in use with you .
mark me with what violence she first loved the moor ,  but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies .
what is  “ t o ” clock ?
madam ,  so thrive i in my enterprise and dangerous success of bloody wars as i intend more good to you and yours than ever you or yours were by me harmed !
art thou the slave that with thy breath hast killed mine innocent child ?
o dear ophelia, i am ill at these numbers; i have not art to reckon my groans.
edmund ,  seek him out ,  wind me into him ,  i pray you .
then burst his mighty heart, and, in his mantle muffling up his face, even at the base of pompey's statue, which all the while ran blood, great caesar fell.
o well - a - day that ever i was born !
here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me for bringing wood in slowly, i'll fall flat.
that she was false to wedlock ?
death’s the end of all .
a’ was a merry man) took up the child .
why do you send so thick ?
but to read his right wits is to read thus .
but i pray you ,  tell me ,  is my boy ,  god rest his soul ,  alive or dead ?
cesario ,  you do not keep promise with me .
the weary way hath made you melancholy .
show me the place .
yea ,  but you must not make the full show of this till you may do it without controlment .
i will here, shroud till the dregs of the storm be past.
let them come in .
is rosaline, that thou didst love so dear, so soon forsaken?
o infinite virtue ,  com’st thou smiling from the world’s great snare uncaught ?
be these the wretches that we played at dice for ?
o woeful day!
would thou’dst be ruled by me !
goblin ,  lead them up and down .
i will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit.
romeo is coming .
the king doth love you well .
tis he ,  that villain romeo .
i call thee by the most modest terms ,  for i am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil himself with courtesy .
lesser than macbeth ,  and greater .
therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
mark antony shall say i am not well ,  and for thy humor i will stay at home .
is't possible a young maid's wits should be as mortal as an old man's life?
thou hast amaz'd me.
why, one that swears and lies.
when saw you my father last ?
what shall i say ?
oh ,  mickle is the powerful grace that lies in herbs ,  plants ,  stones ,  and their true qualities .
sola!
good gentlemen ,  let me have leave to speak .
and now ,  who knows but you ,  lorenzo ,  whether i am yours ?
the lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard .
o, that we then could come by caesar's spirit, and not dismember caesar!
for your broken shin .
will you go with me ?
mark how he trembles in his ecstasy .
if a christian wrong a jew, what should his sufferance be by christian example?
what will you give me now for that same handkerchief?
tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word macduff is fled to england.
come hither.
a beast, no more.
you the like loss?
most certain .
stand up .
yes ,  sooth; and so do you .
have at you now !
yon ribaudred nag of egypt— whom leprosy o’ertake ! —i’ th’ midst o’ th’ fight ,  when vantage like a pair of twins appeared both as the same ,  or rather ours the elder ,  the breeze upon her ,  like a cow in june ,  hoists sails and flies .
then he is dead ?
pale as thy smock!
the greater part ,  the horse in general ,  are come with cassius .
the moor!
wherefore to dover ,  sir ?
thy sister’s sister .
do not learn of him ,  emilia ,  though he be thy husband .
do ,  with like timorous accent and dire yell as when ,  by night and negligence ,  the fire is spied in populous cities .
this wretch hath part confessed his villainy .
madam ,  i am most apt to embrace your offer .
i’ll send to one in mantua ,  where that same banished runagate doth live ,  shall give him such an unaccustomed dram that he shall soon keep tybalt company .
farewell ,  dear mother .
now ,  out of doubt antipholus is mad; else would he never so demean himself .
hamlet ,  thou art slain .
o heavens, this is my true-begotten father!
well ,  god - 'a' - mercy .
when he needs what you have glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry again.
of laertes?
a madness most discreet ,  a choking gall ,  and a preserving sweet .
methinks i have a great desire to a bottle of hay .
look in the calendar and bring me word .
lie thou there.
it will be laid to us ,  whose providence should have kept short ,  restrain'd ,  and out of haunt this mad young man .
is he gone ?
thriftless ambition ,  that will raven up thine own lives' means !
but in respect of that ,  i would fain think it were not .
will you be patient ?
would you praise caesar ,  say  “ caesar .  ”  go no further .
i do not know; i am sure i am none such.
i thought that all things had been savage here ,  and therefore put i on the countenance of stern commandment .
alas ,  i rather hate myself for hateful deeds committed by myself .
tomorrow shall you bear our full intent back to our brother england .
if i may trust the flattering truth of sleep ,  my dreams presage some joyful news at hand .
and so do i too ,  lieutenant .
from the count orsino ,  is it ?
what is pyramus?
we are oft to blame in this— 'tis too much proved—that with devotion's visage and pious action we do sugar o'er the devil himself.
upon the talk of the poisoning ?
it is my wretched fortune.
therefore this letter ,  being so excellently ignorant ,  will breed no terror in the youth .
but lest myself be guilty to self wrong ,  i’ll stop mine ears against the mermaid’s song .
nay ,  that's not so .
i had rather be any kind o' thing than a fool .
men should be what they seem ,  or those that be not ,  would they might seem none !
bernardo ?
do i speak you fair ?
fie!
so let it be with caesar .
what's in a name ?
i will have none on ’t .
o heavenly powers ,  restore him !
there was ,  for a while ,  no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question .
she is spherical ,  like a globe .
o young and noble cato, art thou down?
are you at leisure, holy father, now, or shall i come to you at evening mass?
thou art a fool .
i have brought you from venice .
nor i ,  my lord ,  in faith .
truly ,  the tree yields bad fruit .
that may be ,  for you bear a many superfluously ,  and ’twere more honor some were away .
i take it ,  your own business calls on you ,  and you embrace the occasion to depart .
i'll follow you; i'll lead you about a round ,  through bog ,  through bush ,  through brake ,  through brier; sometime a horse i'll be ,  sometime a hound ,  a hog ,  a headless bear ,  sometime a fire; and neigh ,  and bark ,  and grunt ,  and roar ,  and burn ,  like horse ,  hound ,  hog ,  bear ,  fire ,  at every turn .
alack, where are you?
if we do lose this battle, then is this the very last time we shall speak together.
that's the dog's name.
who intercepts my expedition ?
i would thou hadst been son to some man else .
be you and i behind an arras then; mark the encounter.
heavens keep him from these beasts !
who is next ?
and if on earth he do not merit it ,  in reason he should never come to heaven .
where’s dolabella ,  to second proculeius ?
o, their bones, their bones!
why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
young man ,  have you challenged charles the wrestler ?
arrest him ,  officer .
ah ,  the immortal passado !
sit ,  jessica .
which way hast thou been ?
my lord ?
o me ,  o me !
i should know that voice .
marry, our play is, the most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of pyramus and thisbe.
the one i'll slay, the other slayeth me.
teach me ,  dear creature ,  how to think and speak .
observe her ,  stand close .
then ,  if we lose this battle ,  you are contented to be led in triumph thorough the streets of rome ?
good mercutio !
what gentleman ?
and ,  sister ,  as the winds give benefit and convoy is assistant ,  do not sleep ,  but let me hear from you .
with one fool’s head i came to woo ,  but i go away with two . — sweet ,  adieu .
here ,  sir !
good madam .
this the dauphin speaks .
i thank you.
and i do hope good days and long to see .
my husband !
the juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid will make or man or woman madly dote upon the next live creature that it sees .
i can ,  at any unseasonable instant of the night ,  appoint her to look out at her lady’s chamber window .
plantagenet .
haply a woman’s voice may do some good ,  when articles too nicely urged be stood on .
ere i ope his letter ,  i pray you tell me how my good friend doth .
can no prayers pierce thee?
of him, sir.
yes ,  in truth it is ,  sir .
something from cyprus as i may divine .
you are naught ,  you are naught !
how hast thou the heart ,  being a divine ,  a ghostly confessor ,  a sin - absolver ,  and my friend professed ,  to mangle me with that word  “ banishèd ”  ?
i see thou knowest me not .
in such a night, did young lorenzo swear he lov'd her well; stealing her soul with many vows of faith, and ne'er a true one.
thou speak’st aright .
yea ,  by mass ,  that it is .
truly ,  she makes a very good report o’ th’ worm .
madam ,  i am not well .
dost thou live by thy tabour ?
quick ,  quick; fear nothing; i'll be at thy elbow .
i know a lady in venice would have walked barefoot to palestine for a touch of his nether lip .
i’ll not answer that but say it is my humour .
so please your lordship to accept our duty .
by'r lady ,  thirty years .
why do you make such faces ?
to choose love by another's eyes .
put out the light ,  and then put out the light .
sit you too .
hold him in safety till the prince come hither .
i know his gait ,  ’tis he . —villain ,  thou diest !
it did come to his hands ,  and commands shall be executed .
for but a month ago i went from hence ,  and then ’twas fresh in murmur—as ,  you know ,  what great ones do the less will prattle of— that he did seek the love of fair olivia .
in your bad strokes ,  brutus ,  you give good words .
to sebastian and antonio] there stand, [to sebastian and antonio] there stand, for you are spell-stopped.— holy gonzalo, honourable man, mine eyes, even sociable to the show of thine, fall fellowly drops.
so i do still, by these pickers and stealers!
no messenger but thine ,  and all alone tonight we’ll wander through the streets and note the qualities of people .
the woman falls; sure, he hath kill'd his wife.
belike you slew great number of his people ?
for god's love let me hear !
i do beseech you ,  sir ,  trouble yourself no further .
i know thou wilt say ‘ay’; and i will take thy word .
yet he looks successfully .
poor i am but his stale .
and now ,  good sweet ,  say thy opinion;— how dost thou like the lord bassanio's wife ?
i dare not drink yet ,  madam .
is this a prologue or the posy of a ring ?
where should they be set else?
we’ll away tonight ,  and be a day before our husbands home .
i pray you, is my master yet return'd?
how otherwise ? — will you be ruled by me ?
here comes sir oliver . —sir oliver martext ,  you are well met .
god be at your table!
no?
oh ,  let us hence .
well ,  you have made a simple choice .
yes ,  captain ,  but with this acknowledgement: that god fought for us .
one–two— why then ’tis time to do't.
and now, good sweet, say thy opinion;— how dost thou like the lord bassanio's wife?
did he confess it?
it is not so express'd ,  but what of that ?
what news with you ,  sir ?
this only is the witchcraft i have used .
am i that name, iago?
filth ,  thou liest !
ay ,  with cassio .
you lie.
o ,  how this mother swells up toward my heart !
an it shall please you to break up this, it shall seem to signify.
fie ,  fie ,  lieutenant ,  you’ll be ashamed for ever .
it seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an ethiop's ear— beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
yes ,  here i tender it for him in the court; yea ,  twice the sum: if that will not suffice ,  i will be bound to pay it ten times o'er ,  on forfeit of my hands ,  my head ,  my heart: if this will not suffice ,  it must appear that malice bears down truth .
full half an hour .
where is this king?
we two ,  my lord ,  will guard your person while you take your rest ,  and watch your safety .
demetrius loves her ,  and he loves not you .
by god’s sonties ,  ’twill be a hard way to hit .
till then sit still ,  my soul .
hail, brave friend!
mark antony,— pardon me, caius cassius.
cuckold me!
things have fall'n out ,  sir ,  so unluckily that we have had no time to move our daughter .
leave me with haste .
marry ,  patience ,  or i shall say you are all in all in spleen ,  and nothing of a man .
why do you speak so startingly and rash?
o thou foul thief ,  where hast thou stow'd my daughter ?
therefore be doubledamn'd; swear thou art honest .
i must perforce have shown to thee such a declining day ,  or look on thine .
so all.
it were not for your quiet nor your good, nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom, to let you know my thoughts.
by your patience ,  i needs must rest me .
a lord to a lord ,  a man to a man ,  stuffed with all honorable virtues .
why wouldst thou be a breeder of sinners?
what ,  wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice ?
no ,  my noble lord .
he is all the mother’s ,  from the top to toe .
o ,  full of danger is the duke of gloucester ,  and the queen’s sons and brothers haught and proud ,  and were they to be ruled ,  and not to rule ,  this sickly land might solace as before .
to stephano and trinculo] hence, and bestow your lug- [to stephano and trinculo] hence, and bestow your lug- gage where you found it.
i see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl that speak my salutation in their minds, whose voices i desire aloud with mine: hail, king of scotland!
where is the beauteous majesty of denmark ?
fly ,  good fleance ,  fly ,  fly ,  fly !
well ,  i will forget the condition of my estate to rejoice in yours .
i have said .
the business she hath broached in the state cannot endure my absence .
beguil'd, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
art thou there ,  truepenny ?
sweet desdemona!
is cassius near ?
why, yet it lives there unchecked that antonio hath a ship of rich lading wrack'd on the narrow seas,—the goodwins, i think they call the place; a very dangerous flat, and fatal, where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip report, be an honest woman of her word.
follow me not .
by heaven ,  i’ll make a ghost of him that lets me .
hast stol'n it from her ?
if she be false ,  heaven mocked itself .
and what said surrey then ?
i did not.
why i should fear i know not ,  since guiltiness i know not; but yet i feel i fear .
save you ,  worthy general !
my lord ,  his majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head .
i am gone ,  though i am here .
your tale ,  sir ,  would cure deafness .
he tells me flatly there is no mercy for me in heaven because i am a jew’s daughter ,  and he says you are no good member of the commonwealth ,  for in converting jews to christians you raise the price of pork .
i eat the air ,  promise - cramm'd .
we talk here in the public haunt of men .
if your messenger find him not there ,  seek him i' the other place yourself .
had i as many mouths as hydra ,  such an answer would stop them all .
till i shall see you in your soldiers’ dress ,  which will become you both ,  farewell .
what is't ?
i humbly thank your ladyship .
by your patience ,  no .
i have a pain upon my forehead here.
well ,  jessica ,  go in .
how now, general?
you are a lover.
i warrant ,  an i should live a thousand years ,  i never should forget it .
o excellent !
treason and murder ever kept together as two yoke - devils sworn to either’s purpose ,  working so grossly in a natural cause that admiration did not whoop at them .
ay, but the clerk that never means to do it, unless he live until he be a man.
nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet say nothing neither .
i have no way ,  and therefore want no eyes .
get thee to a nunnery.
if he say so ,  may his pernicious soul rot half a grain a day !
bring me but to the very brim of it ,  and i’ll repair the misery thou dost bear with something rich about me .
why then ,  lead on .
nor know i aught by me that's said or done amiss this night; unless self - charity be sometimes a vice ,  and to defend ourselves it be a sin when violence assails us .
he comes upon a wish .
but ,  if you knew to whom you show this honour ,  how true a gentleman you send relief ,  how dear a lover of my lord your husband ,  i know you would be prouder of the work ,  than customary bounty can enforce you .
i cannot live to hear the news from england, but i do prophesy the election lights on fortinbras.
if i be waspish ,  best beware my sting .
who is here so rude that would not be a roman ?
a kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
for all this same, i'll hide me hereabout.
that i have labored with all my wits ,  my pains ,  and strong endeavors ,  to bring your most imperial majesties unto this bar and royal interview ,  your mightiness on both parts best can witness .
honest iago hath ta'en order for ’t .
thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine worth seizure ,  do we seize into our hands till thou canst quit thee by thy brother’s mouth of what we think against thee .
evermore show'ring?
i thank you ,  valiant cassio .
what is it she does now?
alas, my lord, your wisdom is consumed in confidence.
remember me.
ill luck ,  ill luck ?
hear you ,  sir ?
if not ,  when you have stomachs .
tis paltry to be caesar .
oh ,  what learning is !
hail .
now ,  good angels preserve the king .
do you find your patience so predominant in your nature, that you can let this go?
for ,  i am sure ,  you have your hands full all in this so sudden business .
if i do not put on a sober habit ,  talk with respect and swear but now and then ,  wear prayer books in my pocket ,  look demurely— nay more .
malcolm!
but thou must needs be sure my spirits and my place have in their power to make this bitter to thee .
and i do think, or else this brain of mine hunts not the trail of policy so sure as it hath used to do, that i have found the very cause of hamlet's lunacy.
my young master doth expect your reproach .
to mourn a mischief that is past and gone is the next way to draw new mischief on.
what, i say, my foot my tutor?
the clock hath stricken three.
i think he will stand very strong with us .
go ,  get thee gone ,  i say .
say not so .
i’ faith ,  i am sorry that thou art not well .
go, some of you, and bring these gentlemen where hamlet is.
the moor’s abused by some most villainous knave ,  some base notorious knave ,  some scurvy fellow .
what place?
ay, my good lord.
excellent wretch !
what a sigh is there !
you should ask me what time o' day .
thou hast harped my fear aright .
bring them before us.
all this?
i thank you for your pains and courtesy .
till he come home again ,  i would forbear .
my life for yours !
so will i turn her virtue into pitch, and out of her own goodness make the net that shall enmesh them all.
though nature hath given us wit to flout at fortune ,  hath not fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument ?
do i speak you fair ?
you must be father to your brother’s daughter ,  and give her to young claudio .
utter your gravity o'er a gossip’s bowl ,  for here we need it not .
i cry you mercy ,  uncle . —by your grace’s pardon .
enough .
have i the aspic in my lips ?
we will have such a prologue ,  and it shall be written in eight and six .
had i been any god of power, i would have sunk the sea within the earth, or ere it should the good ship so have swallowed and the fraughting souls within her.
i would have him nine years akilling .
how’s the day ?
be't their comfort we are coming thither.
and so return to you, and nothing else?
big mars seems bankrupt in their beggared host and faintly through a rusty beaver peeps .
what says the golden chest ?
nor will not .
romeo !
stand!
indeed ,  that is out of the air .
sweet lady, you have given me life, and living; for here i read for certain, that my ships are safely come to road.
my naked weapon is out .
o life !
belike this show imports the argument of the play .
killing swine .
therefore prepare to die .
earth's increase ,  foison plenty ,  barns and garners never empty ,  vines and clust'ring bunches growing ,  plants and goodly burden bowing; spring come to you at the farthest in the very end of harvest !
should be ” —should buzz !
i ,  thus neglecting worldly ends ,  all dedicated to closeness and the bettering of my mind with that which ,  but by being so retired ,  o'erprized all popular rate ,  in my false brother awaked an evil nature .
a roman .
but what is your affair in elsinore ?
that skull had a tongue in it ,  and could sing once .
this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter; and, my fortunes against any lay worth naming, this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.
do not bid me speak .
or like a whale.
for the love o' god ,  peace !
this above all: to thine own self be true ,  and it must follow ,  as the night the day ,  thou canst not then be false to any man .
and what to?
not till you have slept .
fire and brimstone !
god keep your ladyship still in that mind ,  so some gentle -  man or other shall ’scape a predestinate scratched face .
i’ll ride home tomorrow ,  sir toby .
no ,  for then we should be colliers .
portia ,  forgive me this enforced wrong; and ,  in the hearing of these many friends ,  i swear to thee ,  even by thine own fair eyes ,  wherein i see myself , — mark you but that !
not that, i hope, which you receiv'd of me.
let us do so, for we are at the stake, and bay'd about with many enemies; and some that smile have in their hearts, i fear, millions of mischiefs.
yare !
take it ,  brave york .
once more ,  adieu .
fetch me this herb ,  and be thou here again ere the leviathan can swim a league .
name him .
let me see his face .
peter!
welcome ,  mistress .
well, my good lady.
but two months dead !
tell me where is fancy bred, or in the heart, or in the head?
i will have it all mine .
in religion ,  what damned error ,  but some sober brow will bless it ,  and approve it with a text ,  hiding the grossness with fair ornament ?
some kinds of baseness are nobly undergone .
i must prevent thee, cimber.
as i am an honest man ,  i thought you had received some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than in reputa -  tion .
over thy wounds now do i prophesy— which ,  like dumb mouths ,  do ope their ruby lips to beg the voice and utterance of my tongue— a curse shall light upon the limbs of men .
so oft as that shall be, so often shall the knot of us be call'd the men that gave their country liberty.
speak, i charge you.
i know you two are rival enemies; how comes this gentle concord in the world that hatred is so far from jealousy to sleep by hate ,  and fear no enmity ?
my wife!
i say thy husband.
widow dido!
god save the foundation !
and so good morrow to you every one .
were you the doctor, and i knew you not?
have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
the devil speaks in him.
nurse ,  where's my daughter ?
but that thy strange mutations make us hate thee ,  life would not yield to age .
your grace ,  we think ,  should soonest know his mind .
make me a willow cabin at your gate and call upon my soul within the house .
o heavenly powers, restore him!
you have spoken truer than you purposed .
thy face is mine ,  and thou hast slandered it .
tis most true; and he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties to hear and see the matter .
your looks are pale and wild and do import some misadventure.
i’ll see thee hanged on sunday first .
yes .
something have you heard of hamlet’s  “ transformation ” —so call it since nor th' exterior nor the inward man resembles that it was .
here ,  'tis ,  most reverend doctor ,  here it is .
is he not light of brain ?
no ,  by this heavenly light !
give me some light.
it is no mean happiness ,  therefore ,  to be seated in the mean .
madam ,  here comes my lord .
your statue spouting blood in many pipes ,  in which so many smiling romans bathed ,  signifies that from you great rome shall suck reviving blood ,  and that great men shall press for tinctures ,  stains ,  relics ,  and cognizance .
thence we looked toward england and cited up a thousand fearful times ,  during the wars of york and lancaster that had befall'n us .
i doubt it is no other but the main ,  his father's death and our o'erhasty marriage .
you press me far ,  and therefore i will yield .
the english force ,  so please you .
wherefore ?
any strange beast there makes a man .
away ,  slight man !
good hermia ,  do not be so bitter with me .
it cannot be .
now ,  most noble brutus ,  the gods today stand friendly ,  that we may ,  lovers in peace ,  lead on our days to age !
you kiss by th' book .
and so she doth ,  cousin .
o ,  villain that i am !
hast thou slain him ,  then ?
if we should fail ?
he was a man .
shall i descend ?
he shall not go to prison .
a maiden never bold; of spirit so still and quiet that her motion blush'd at herself; and she—in spite of nature ,  of years ,  of country ,  credit ,  everything— to fall in love with what she fear'd to look on !
if i do prove her haggard, though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings, i'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind to prey at fortune.
to feed were best at home; from thence the sauce to meat is ceremony; meeting were bare without it .
indeed the top of admiration, worth what's dearest to the world!
sweet, adieu!
oh ,  i am undone ,  i am undone !
we shall lose our time ,  and all be turned to barnacles ,  or to apes with foreheads villanous low .
now follow ,  if thou darest ,  to try whose right ,  of thine or mine ,  is most in helena .
i could marry this wench for this device .
is she shrill - tongued or low ?
banquo !
he shall tell them so .
prithee ,  who is ’t that thou mean’st ?
awake ,  i say !
i’ll not fail ,  if i live .
he longs to eat the english .
what is he at the gate ,  cousin ?
if charnel houses and our graves must send those that we bury back, our monuments shall be the maws of kites.
what wilt thou tell her ,  nurse ?
and i do with an eye of love requite her .
thou told'st me they were stolen unto this wood, and here am i, and wood within this wood, because i cannot meet my hermia.
i entreat you both that ,  being of so young days brought up with him ,  and sith so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour ,  that you vouchsafe your rest here in our court some little time; so by your companies to draw him on to pleasures ,  and to gather so much as from occasion you may glean ,  whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus that open'd lies within our remedy .
and from her womb children of divers kind we sucking on her natural bosom find ,  many for many virtues excellent ,  none but for some and yet all different .
cassio ,  my lord ,  hath kill'd a young venetian call'd roderigo .
be quiet ,  people .
filth, thou liest!
this is a fellow of the selfsame color our sister speaks of . —come ,  bring away the stocks !
do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a venetian, a scholar and a soldier that came hither in company of the marquis of montferrat?
my father, in his habit as he liv'd!
fair is foul, and foul is fair.
we see the ground whereon these woes do lie, but the true ground of all these piteous woes we cannot without circumstance descry.
go bid the priests do present sacrifice, and bring me their opinions of success.
i will incontinently drown myself .
ay ,  and a bold one ,  that dare look on that which might appal the devil .
no .
thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose .
shame of ladies ,  sisters !
though it pass your patience and mine to endure her loud alarums ,  why ,  man ,  there be good fellows in the world ,  an a man could light on them ,  would take her with all faults ,  and money enough .
too familiar is my dear son with such sour company .
god bless you ,  sir .
my lord ,  i have news to tell you .
i know you are not ignorant— i would you did ,  sir .
what lights come yond ?
gracious my lord ,  i should report that which i say i saw ,  but know not how to do ’t .
for us, and for our tragedy, here stooping to your clemency, we beg your hearing patiently.
or be alive again ,  and dare me to the desert with thy sword .
o, by whom?
most meet that first we come to words ,  and therefore have we our written purposes before us sent ,  which ,  if thou hast considered ,  let us know if ’twill tie up thy discontented sword and carry back to sicily much tall youth that else must perish here .
give me thy hand .
a devil, a born devil, on whose nature nurture can never stick; on whom my pains, humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost, and, as with age his body uglier grows, so his mind cankers.
i will reward thee once for thy sprightly comfort and tenfold for thy good valor .
well, my good lord, i'll do't.
in second husband let me be accurst !
thou torturest me, tubal: it was my turquoise: i had it of leah, when i was a bachelor: i would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.
do not think ,  gentlemen ,  i am drunk .
up and down ,  up and down ,   i will lead them up and down .
look ,  look .
we say that shore’s wife hath a pretty foot ,  a cherry lip ,  a bonny eye ,  a passing pleasing tongue ,  and that the queen’s kindred are made gentlefolks .
fore god, an excellent song.
nay ,  you were better speak first ,  and when you were graveled for lack of matter ,  you might take occasion to kiss .
no way but gentleness ,  gently ,  gently .
madam ,  i will .
gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where i may find the young romeo ?
god ,  the best maker of all marriages ,  combine your hearts in one ,  your realms in one .
it is but trash .
canidius and the rest that fell away have entertainment but no honorable trust .
help me ,  my women !
there ,  take it ,  prince ,  and if my form lie there ,  then i am yours .
two things are to be done: my wife must move for cassio to her mistress .
what a head have i!
great jove, othello guard, and swell his sail with thine own powerful breath, that he may bless this bay with his tall ship, make love's quick pants in desdemona's arms, give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits, and bring all cyprus comfort.
but ’tis not so above .
if i can fasten but one cup upon him ,  with that which he hath drunk tonight already ,  he’ll be as full of quarrel and offense as my young mistress' dog .
no ,  not much moved .
let them set on at once ,  for i perceive but cold demeanor in octavius' wing ,  and sudden push gives them the overthrow .
nobody; i myself.
o ,  help me here !
i have no hope that he's undrowned .
yet i hate not orlando .
but soft ,  but soft a while .
bring them before us .
and what's in prayer but this twofold force, to be forestalled ere we come to fall, or pardon'd being down?
i will do't!
help me hence, ho!
i pray thee, understand a plain man in his plain meaning; go to thy fellows; bid them cover the table, serve in the meat, and we will come in to dinner.
you mean ,  to bear me ,  not to bear with me . — uncle ,  my brother mocks both you and me .
how can that be ,  unless she drown'd herself in her own defence ?
he has no children .
what’s a drunken man like ,  fool ?
i should sin to think but nobly of my grandmother: good wombs have borne bad sons .
lo ,  she is one of this confederacy !
upon my life ,  by some device or other the villain is o'erraught of all my money .
gentle octavia ,  let your best love draw to that point which seeks best to preserve it .
sir ,  in this audience ,  let my disclaiming from a purposed evil free me so far in your most generous thoughts that i have shot my arrow o'er the house and hurt my brother .
our general cast us thus early for the love of his desdemona—who let us not therefore blame .
the sun for sorrow will not show his head.
is ’t not enough ,  is ’t not enough ,  young man ,  that i did never ,  no ,  nor never can ,  deserve a sweet look from demetrius' eye ,  but you must flout my insufficiency ?
madam ,  bethink you ,  like a careful mother ,  of the young prince your son .
ay ,  my lord .
this is mere madness .
now ,  by my sword—                                              and target .
thus hath the candle sing'd the moth.
if, rather than to marry county paris, thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself, then is it likely thou wilt undertake a thing like death to chide away this shame, that cop’st with death himself to scape from it; and, if thou dar'st, i'll give thee remedy.
if i do not love her ,  i am a jew .
follow me .
let me come to her.
twas no need ,  i trow ,  to bid me trudge .
though birnam wood be come to dunsinane ,  and thou opposed ,  being of no woman born ,  yet i will try the last .
thou dost conspire against thy friend ,  iago ,  if thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear a stranger to thy thoughts .
well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death as that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
so ,  prithee ,  go with me .
i come, anon.—but if thou meanest not well, i do beseech thee— madam!
o my good lord ,  believe not all ,  or ,  if you must believe ,  stomach not all .
i know no touch of it ,  my lord .
it is written ,  that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last ,  the fisher with his pencil and the painter with his nets .
nay, answer me.
sing it tonight .
where is my romeo?
banquo and macbeth ,  all hail !
as mine eyes opened ,  i saw their weapons drawn .
o ,  so light a foot will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint .
what hath he said ?
where is he now ?
or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life extorted treasure in the womb of earth ,  for which ,  they say ,  you spirits oft walk in death ,  speak of it .
i am one ,  my liege ,  whom the vile blows and buffets of the world have so incensed that i am reckless what i do to spite the world .
could he dig without arms ?
the gods are just ,  and of our pleasant vices make instruments to plague us .
nought's had ,  all's spent ,  where our desire is got without content .
the word is too good to paint out her wickedness .
indeed ,  upon my sword ,  indeed .
fear nothing .
this tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues, was once thought honest.
it may be his enemy is a gentleman of great sort ,  quite from the answer of his degree .
there the grown serpent lies .
this wretch hath part confess'd his villainy .
from fife ,  great king ,  where the norweyan banners flout the sky and fan our people cold .
i hold the world but as the world ,  gratiano; a stage ,  where every man must play a part ,  and mine a sad one .
what love could press lysander from my side?
faith, e'en with losing his wits.
would i had met my dearest foe in heaven or ever i had seen that day, horatio!
tell the clock there .
swart like my shoe ,  but her face nothing like so clean kept .
who was ’t came by ?
farewell!
of nothing .
o me, lieutenant!
the wood of birnam.
in which array ,  brave soldier ,  doth he lie ,  larding the plain ,  and by his bloody side ,  yoke - fellow to his honor - owing wounds ,  the noble earl of suffolk also lies .
certainly, sir, i can.
out ,  out ,  brief candle !
be a child o’ th’ time .
besides ,  there is no king ,  be his cause never so spotless ,  if it come to the arbitrament of swords ,  can try it out with all unspotted soldiers .
if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or when- soever, provided i be so able as now.
your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome; and, i warrant, a virtuous—where is your mother?
am i a married man or a bachelor?
heaven preserve you !
thou shalt ,  i warrant thee .
my lord ,  my lord !
twill not he seen in him there.
hail ,  king of scotland !
tell me ,  thou villain - slave ,  where are my children ?
but he comes armed in his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife .
i had rather be a toad and live upon the vapor of a dungeon than keep a corner in the thing i love for others' uses .
a drum ,  a drum !
it is .
he longs not for the dawning as we do .
if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made men.
up in the air ,  crowned with the golden sun ,  saw his heroical seed and smiled to see him mangle the work of nature and deface the patterns that by god and by french fathers had twenty years been made .
well ,  go to .
this deed of thine is no more worthy heaven than thou wast worthy her .
that's certain, if the devil may be her judge.
what demi - god hath come so near creation ?
nor will you tender less .
why should i not ?
to you, antonio, i owe the most in money and in love; and from your love i have a warranty to unburthen all my plots and purposes, how to get clear of all the debts i owe.
she soon shall know of us ,  by some of ours ,  how honorable and how kindly we determine for her ,  for caesar cannot live to be ungentle .
if you'll sit down i'll bear your logs the while.
drown cats and blind puppies !
here is a friar ,  and slaughter'd romeo's man ,  with instruments upon them fit to open these dead men's tombs .
i doubt it is no other but the main, his father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
no .
when it is paid according to the tenor .
one fairer than my love?
in this slumbery agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances, what, at any time, have you heard her say?
what prisoners of good sort are taken ,  uncle ?
so please you ,  we will stand and watch your pleasure .
let’s see once more this saying graved in gold ,   “ who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire .  ”  why ,  that’s the lady .
therefore be double damned ,  swear thou art honest !
ay ,  caesar ,  but not gone .
tis true .
who is here so rude that would not be a roman?
my lord bassanio, since you have found antonio, we two will leave you; but at dinner-time, i pray you have in mind where we must meet.
faith, the cry goes that you shall marry her.
the play's the thing wherein i'll catch the conscience of the king.
strike, as thou didst at caesar, for i know, when thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better than ever thou lovedst cassius.
to die ,  to sleep .
what would he do ,  had he the motive and the cue for passion that i have ?
alas ,  good gentleman !
you see me here ,  you gods ,  a poor old man ,  as full of grief as age ,  wretched in both .
to kill him, clitus.
i will ,  my lord .
so indeed he did.
or if it did not ,  your first is dead ,  or ’twere as good he were ,  as living here and you no use of him .
thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture ,  to be so taken at thy peril ,  jew .
sweet desdemona !
o my son ,  what theme ?
whip me such honest knaves .
most holy and religious fear it is to keep those many many bodies safe that live and feed upon your majesty .
do you know them?
as willingly as e'er i came from school .
then have at you with my wit .
o ,  she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence ,  railed at herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her .
this may flies do, when i from this must fly; they are free men, but i am banished.
i am glad to see you .
i do ,  and surely it is a sleepy language ,  and thou speak’st out of thy sleep .
is she to be buried in christian burial that wilfully seeks her own salvation ?
wherefore rise you now ?
now, by my hood, a gentile and no jew.
pluck down forms, windows, any thing.
i will speak daggers to her but use none .
signior brabantio ,  ho !
saw you the weird sisters ?
hold you ,  there is a groat to heal your pate .
the thane of cawdor lives .
o ,  you are well tuned now !
do not so .
am i your bird ?
cassio ,  my lord !
oh ,  a cherubim thou wast that did preserve me .
what's he that was not born of woman ?
you are gentlemen of brave mettle; you would lift the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue in it five weeks without changing.
yea ,  leave that labor to great hercules ,  and let it be more than alcides' twelve .
nay ,  as they dare .
it is the very error of the moon; she comes more nearer earth than she was wont and makes men mad .
but for the handkerchief— by heaven ,  i would most gladly have forgot it .
nay ,  guiltiness will speak ,  though tongues were out of use .
that he was never trainèd up in arms .
ready .
now ,  antony ,  our hopes are answered .
but yet thou art my flesh ,  my blood ,  my daughter— or rather a disease that’s in my flesh ,  which i must needs call mine .
to leave his wife, to leave his babes, his mansion, and his titles, in a place from whence himself does fly?
i’ll write thee a challenge .
thou sure and firm - set earth ,  hear not my steps ,  which way they walk ,  for fear thy very stones prate of my whereabout ,  and take the present horror from the time ,  which now suits with it .
seafaring men ,  sir .
therefore ,  when he sees reason of fears as we do ,  his fears ,  out of doubt ,  be of the same relish as ours are .
for your dwelling ,  briefly .
if this young gentleman have done offence ,  i take the fault on me .
can you not hate me, as i know you do, but you must join in souls to mock me too?
they must lie there .
go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
that ,  trusted might yet enkindle you unto the crown ,  besides the thane of cawdor .
take me up .
did you converse ,  sir ,  with this gentlewoman ?
she never yet was foolish that was fair; for even her folly help'd her to an heir .
tedious it were to tell and harsh to hear .
i'll send her to you presently; and i'll devise a mean to draw the moor out of the way ,  that your converse and business may be more free .
lo thee !
i have not deserved this .
for my part ,  the sea cannot drown me .
by heavens ,  the duke shall know how slack you have been .
hum ,  i have heard that guilty creatures ,  sitting at a play ,  have by the very cunning of the scene been struck so to the soul that presently they have proclaim'd their malefactions; for murder ,  though it have no tongue ,  will speak with most miraculous organ ,  i'll have these players play something like the murder of my father before mine uncle .
oh ,  lay me by my mistress' side .
it is a massy wheel fixed on the summit of the highest mount ,  to whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things are mortised and adjoined ,  which ,  when it falls ,  each small annexment ,  petty consequence ,  attends the boisterous ruin .
thou hast some suit to caesar ,  hast thou not ?
and so they are .
no ?
very good !
some comfort ,  nurse .
good enobarbus !
so hangs and lolls and weeps upon me; so hales and pulls me.
the more my prayer ,  the lesser is my grace .
do so, and after two days i will discharge thee.
shall we see this wrestling ,  cousin ?
not so ,  neither .
if i may trust the flattering truth of sleep ,  my dreams presage some joyful news at hand .
his employment between his lord and my niece confirms no less .
i thought all for the best .
let me not stay a jot for dinner .
alas, the day!
if we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves, they may pass for excellent men.
i go ,  my lord .
ready .
why should the poor be flatter'd?
your worship's friend and launcelot ,  sir .
masters ,  masters—   warrant you .
you have been factious one against the other . — wife ,  love lord hastings .
out, i say!
whither goest thou?
nay ,  that’s certain .
i did hear the galloping of horse.
all school - days' friendship ,  childhood innocence ?
the mariners all under hatches stowed ,  who ,  with a charm joined to their suffered labor ,  i have left asleep .
then yield thee ,  coward ,  and live to be the show and gaze o’ the time .
there lives within the very flame of love a kind of wick or snuff that will abate it; and nothing is at a like goodness still; for goodness ,  growing to a pleurisy ,  dies in his own too much .
so shows a snowy dove trooping with crows as yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
me they shall feel while i am able to stand ,  and ’tis known i am a pretty piece of flesh .
base trojan ,  thou shalt die .
what shall i do ?
o wretched fool ,  that livest to make thine honesty a vice !
where is my page?
poor knave, i blame thee not, thou art o'erwatch'd.
what not put upon his spongy officers ,  who shall bear the guilt of our great quell ?
why dost thou call him  “ knave ”  ?
the king hath strictly charged the contrary .
look ,  with a spot i damn him .
i dare swear he is no hypocrite but prays from his heart .
he hath been a courtier ,  he swears .
and am i then revenged
who meets us here ?
ay ,  my lord .
not to his father’s .
this night i hold an old accustom'd feast ,  whereto i have invited many a guest ,  such as i love; and you among the store ,  one more ,  most welcome ,  makes my number more .
no ,  as i am a christian .
give room!
what ,  jealous oberon ? —fairies ,  skip hence .
one more, and this the last: so sweet was ne'er so fatal.
what ,  all so soon asleep ?
you speak not as you think; it cannot be .
you must think this ,  look you ,  that the worm will do his kind .
what’s she ?
by the hour of nine.
no more .
what’s to say ?
i hear him near.
why ,  he is the prince’s jester ,  a very dull fool ,  only his gift is in devising impossible slanders .
would the night were come .
if i do so ,  it will be of more price being spoke behind your back than to your face .
if the ill spirit have so fair a house ,  good things will strive to dwell with ’t .
a peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
and it is marvel he outdwells his hour ,  for lovers ever run before the clock .
tell me ,  heavenly bow ,  if venus or her son ,  as thou dost know ,  do now attend the queen ?
but then i saw no harm ,  and then i heard each syllable that breath made up between them .
i cannot tell wat is dat .
o ye immortal gods!
come ,  gertrude ,  we'll call up our wisest friends and let them know both what we mean to do and what's untimely done .
well ,  sir .
when caesar says  “ do this ,  ”  it is perform'd .
let me the curtains draw .
no .
sebastian was my father; such a sebastian was my brother too ,  so went he suited to his watery tomb .
wonder not nor be grieved .
this was looked for at your hand ,  and this was balked .
now this overdone ,  or come tardy off ,  though it make the unskilful laugh ,  cannot but make the judicious grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh a whole theatre of others .
all but metellus cimber ,  and he's gone to seek you at your house .
my father ,  in his habit as he liv'd !
this may prove food to my displeasure .
come ,  sir ,  i pray you ,  go .
he is justly served .
let me see: who chooseth me ,  shall gain what many men desire .
gainst nature still !
would you create me new ?
how died my master ,  strato ?
have i thought long to see this morning's face, and doth it give me such a sight as this?
never ,  my lord .
ay ,  my lord ,  an't please you .
is it a custom ?
come hither; i am here .
if you tickle us ,  do we not laugh ?
good romeo ,  hide thyself .
away !
your reason .
oh ,  this is it that makes your servants droop !
but do not go with it !
oh ,  that she knew she were !
indeed, without an oath, i'll make an end on't!
god forgive me!
urge the necessity and state of times ,  and be not peevish found in great designs .
his sword ,  which was declining on the milky head of reverend priam ,  seem'd i' the air to stick .
what !
and liegemen to the dane .
give him the cup.
good sirs ,  take heart .
muffle me ,  night ,  awhile .
wrong i mine enemies?
come ,  shall we go and kill us venison ?
my regan counsels well .
a horned man's a monster and a beast .
spirit, we must prepare to meet with caliban.
i’ll follow you .
poison ,  i see ,  hath been his timeless end .
poison, i see, hath been his timeless end.
i thank you, valiant cassio.
how shall that faith return again to earth unless that husband send it me from heaven by leaving earth ?
what is thy name?
will caesar speak ?
a pestilent gall to me !
why ,  here’s no crab ,  and therefore look not sour .
and if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?
yes ,  something you can deny for your own safety: you have been a great thief by sea .
but seven years since ,  in syracusa ,  boy ,  thou know’st we parted .
thou ,  my slave ,  as thou report’st thyself ,  wast then her servant .
i promise you i scarcely know myself .
give ear ,  sir ,  to my sister .
even just the sum that i do owe to you is growing to me by antipholus .
wherefore storm you so ?
so could i too .
mark it ,  nuncle .
peter quince !
thriftless ambition ,  that wilt ravin up thine own life's means !
i have perceived a most faint neglect of late ,  which i have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretense and purpose of unkindness .
gracious my lord ,  i should report that which i say i saw ,  but know not how to do it .
my mistress here lies murdered in her bed .
why, sir, cobble you.
i’ll to my charge .
thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour, with martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
of albany’s and cornwall’s powers you heard not ?
away, then!
what are they that would speak with me?
his daughter and i will be king and queen—save our graces ! —and trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys . —dost thou like the plot ,  trinculo ?
let me see.
such and so finely bolted didst thou seem .
she’ll close and be herself whilst our poor malice remains in danger of her former tooth .
speak briefly, can you like of paris’ love?
i must catechise you for it ,  madonna .
i fear'd he did but trifle and meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy !
and can you by no drift of conference get from him why he puts on this confusion, grating so harshly all his days of quiet with turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
but antonio is certainly undone .
the house will be the quieter .
i am much afeard my lady his mother played false with a smith .
what mar you then ,  sir ?
there came divers of antonio's creditors in my company to venice, that swear he cannot choose but break.
unhappy that i am ,  i cannot heave my heart into my mouth .
this the nature whom passion could not shake?
she swoons to see them bleed.
nothing, but this is so.
i told him what i thought ,  and told no more than what he found himself was apt and true .
some to the common pulpits ,  and cry out ,   “ liberty ,  freedom ,  and enfranchisement !  ”  people and senators ,  be not affrighted .
under the earth .
i do require them of you ,  so to use them as we shall find their merits and our safety may equally determine .
swear your love .
o weary reckoning !
sings .
o cassius ,  i am sick of many griefs .
inquire me out some mean poor gentleman ,  whom i will marry straight to clarence' daughter .
go softly on .
my name is thidias .
do you put tricks upon ’s with savages and men of ind ,  ha ?
and a true lover of the holy church .
how died my master, strato?
the sun was not so true unto the day as he to me.
i love to cope him in these sullen fits ,  for then he’s full of matter .
what ,  lamb !
to gonzalo] i prithee, spare.
are there balance here to weigh the flesh ?
nay ,  their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is ,  sir ,  an eyrie of children ,  little eyases ,  that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for't .
for 'tis most easy the inclining desdemona to subdue in any honest suit.
but come, young waverer, come go with me.
the moor replies that he you hurt is of great fame in cyprus and great affinity ,  and that in wholesome wisdom he might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you ,  and needs no other suitor but his likings to take the safest occasion by the front to bring you in again .
too high to be enthrall'd to low .
he’ll speak with you ,  will you or no .
i find here that don pedro hath bestowed much honor on a young florentine called claudio .
my brother shall know of it .
have you had quiet guard ?
i confess two sleeves .
i am sure he had more hair of his tail than i have of my face when i last saw him .
where shall we dine?
you saw my master wink and laugh upon you ?
and die in music .
i’ll warrant him for drowning though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unstanched wench .
i must go seek some dewdrops here  and hang a pearl in every cowslip’s ear .
fare you well .
the lady doth protest too much ,  methinks .
tis they have put him on the old man’s death ,  to have th' expense and spoil of his revenues .
thy reason ,  man ?
then ’tis he: the rest that are within the note of expectation already are i' th' court .
welcome from mantua .
hark!
macbeth!
feed and sleep .
my love doth so approve him that even his stubbornness ,  his checks ,  his frowns— prithee ,  unpin me—have grace and favor .
the storm is up and all is on the hazard .
swell ,  bosom ,  with thy fraught ,  for ’tis of aspics' tongues !
here comes my man.
some to decius' house and some to casca’s .
for by the way i’ll sort occasion ,  as index to the story we late talked of ,  to part the queen’s proud kindred from the prince .
nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is, sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for't.
he is much changed.
you may do it extempore ,  for it is nothing but roaring .
ay ,  with cassio .
what, look you pale?
oh ,  brave iago ,  honest and just ,  that hast such noble sense of thy friend’s wrong !
come, one for me.
what ,  have you lost your wits ?
and my heart too .
i kiss his dirty shoe ,  and from heartstring i love the lovely bully .
hast thou found my daughter?
i saw her laid low in her kindred’s vault and presently took post to tell it you .
for who would bear the whips and scorns of time ,  the oppressor's wrong ,  the proud man's contumely ,  the pangs of disprized love ,  the law's delay ,  the insolence of office ,  and the spurns that patient merit of the unworthy takes ,  when he himself might his quietus make with a bare bodkin ?
one .
thy juliet is alive ,  for whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead— there art thou happy .
armed ,  my lord .
but since it is as it is ,  mend it for your own good .
their papers is more lawful .
but wherefore ,  villain ,  didst thou kill my cousin ?
o villainy !
tut ,  i have lost myself .
you are a lover .
the rest aloof are the dardanian wives ,  with blearèd visages come forth to view the issue of th' exploit . —go ,  hercules !
unhappy fortune!
will you enforce me to a world of cares ?
what ,  will you walk with me about the town and then go to my inn and dine with me ?
you ,  pyramus' father . —myself ,  thisbe’s father . —snug the joiner ,  you ,  the lion’s part . —and i hope here is a play fitted .
o father abram, what these christians are, whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect the thoughts of others!
i remember.
i do repent the tedious minutes i with her have spent .
my bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne ,  and all this day an unaccustom'd spirit lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts .
the ditty does remember my drowned father.
some others search .
and too soon marred are those so early made .
i know not ,  sweet .
masters, spread yourselves.
and these does she apply for warnings and portents and evils imminent, and on her knee hath begg'd that i will stay at home today.
we'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with him.
you look not well ,  signor antonio .
tis a good hand ,  a frank one .
tush, i will stir about, and all things shall be well, i warrant thee, wife.
he needs not .
my excellent good friends!
my leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
never come such division ’tween our souls .
whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks; thou hast harp'd my fear aright.
caesar's better parts shall be crown'd in brutus.
no hope that way is another way so high a hope that even ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond ,  but doubt discovery there .
take up the body .
to a nunnery ,  go; and quickly too .
thou dost snore distinctly .
by 'r lady ,  i think it be so .
where should they be set else ?
tis not so now.
now gather, and surmise.
who shall stay you?
ha !
who hath measured the ground ?
you shall ,  my lord .
what says that fool of hagar's offspring; ha ?
witness ,  you ever - burning lights above ,  you elements that clip us round about ,  witness that here iago doth give up the execution of his wit ,  hands ,  heart ,  to wronged othello’s service .
i can suck melancholy out of a song as a weasel sucks eggs .
twere good you let him know; for who that's but a queen ,  fair ,  sober ,  wise ,  would from a paddock ,  from a bat ,  a gib such dear concernings hide ?
now ,  by the stock and honour of my kin ,  to strike him dead i hold it not a sin .
my lord ,  the king your father .
i'll have the work ta'en out ,  and give't iago .
what is it that you would impart to me?
i prithee ,  turn aside and weep for her .
he misses not much.
i’ll go alone .
a most scurvy monster !
i thank you .
i was told that by one that knows him better than you .
cheerly ,  cheerly ,  my hearts !
here ,  sir !  ”  you loggerheaded and unpolished grooms !
we'll hear him ,  we'll follow him ,  we'll die with him .
to alonso] had i plantation of this isle ,  my lord , — [to alonso] had i [to sebastian] he'd sow't with nettle - seed .
his speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired, but all disordered.
hold ,  take my sword .
romeo, doff thy name; and for that name, which is no part of thee, take all myself.
so smooth he daubed his vice with show of virtue that ,  his apparent open guilt omitted— i mean his conversation with shore’s wife— he lived from all attainder of suspects .
what ,  rouse thee ,  man !
we waste our lights in vain ,  like lights by day .
alas ,  malvolio ,  this is not my writing ,  though ,  i confess ,  much like the character .
i knew what you would prove .
how ,  how ,  how ,  how ,  choplogic ?
thanks for that .
no ,  pray thee ,  let it serve for table - talk; then ,  howso'er thou speak'st ,  'mong other things i shall digest it .
no, no!
but ,  alas the while !
portia, art thou gone?
madam !
that will be ere the set of sun.
she is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair, to merit bliss by making me despair.
here ,  as i point my sword ,  the sun arises ,  which is a great way growing on the south ,  weighing the youthful season of the year .
tis a fault i will not change for your best virtue .
gainst nature still!
go to my chamber ,  put on clothes of mine .
boy ,  this shall not excuse the injuries that thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw .
this is well .
then must the jew be merciful.
let me peruse this face.
o curse of marriage ,  that we can call these delicate creatures ours ,  and not their appetites !
but canst thou guess that he doth aim at it ?
he fell down in the market-place and foamed at mouth and was speechless.
for shame, bring juliet forth; her lord is come.
where is my father?
i will confess to you that i love him.
tomorrow ,  if you please to speak with me ,  i will come home to you .
then there’s life in ’t .
are your doors lock'd?
i think he will carry this island home in his pocket and give it his son for an apple.
what is the matter ,  ho ?
i frown upon him ,  yet he loves me still .
i hope he is ,  but yet let mothers doubt .
next ,  cleopatra does confess thy greatness ,  submits her to thy might ,  and of thee craves the circle of the ptolemies for her heirs ,  now hazarded to thy grace .
it is hypocrisy against the devil .
meagre were his looks ,  sharp misery had worn him to the bones; and in his needy shop a tortoise hung ,  an alligator stuff'd ,  and other skins of ill - shaped fishes; and about his shelves a beggarly account of empty boxes ,  green earthen pots ,  bladders ,  and musty seeds ,  remnants of packthread ,  and old cakes of roses were thinly scattered ,  to make up a show .
only i have left to say, more is thy due than more than all can pay.
then have at you with my wit !
sola !
most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
she was of carthage ,  not of tunis .
no, monster, not i.
i found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren .
i am ashamed i did yield to them .
come ,  sister . —shepherdess ,  look on him better ,  and be not proud .
ay.
if he awake ,  from toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches ,  make us strange stuff .
i think he only loves the world for him .
how quickly the wrong side may be turned outward !
come ,  i’ll dispose of thee among a sisterhood of holy nuns .
how should i your true love know from another one?
will you ha' the truth on't ?
what need i fear of thee?
what is ’t you do ?
wouldst thou aught with me ?
suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure.
or image of that horror ?
an angel is like you ,  kate ,  and you are like an angel .
go ,  my dread lord ,  to your great - grandsire’s tomb ,  from whom you claim .
then hie you hence to friar lawrence’s cell .
why ,  by making him uncapable of othello’s place: knocking out his brains .
then be ’t so ,  my good lord . — how does the king ?
i have made strong proof of my constancy ,  giving myself a voluntary wound here in the thigh .
and stand indebted, over and above, in love and service to you evermore.
o ,  break ,  my heart !
a great perturbation in nature ,  to receive at once the benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching !
these clothes are good enough to drink in ,  and so be these boots too .
but now ,  i tell thee—keep it to thyself— this day those enemies are put to death ,  and i in better state than e'er i was .
take thou that .
peace ,  this piece of toasted cheese will do ’t .
let our catch be  “ thou knave .  ”   “ hold thy peace ,  thou knave ,  ”  knight ?
no, cousin, i'll to fife.
but you ,  my honorable lords ,  may name the time ,  and in the duke’s behalf i’ll give my voice ,  which i presume he’ll take in gentle part .
till then sit still ,  my soul .
lie thou there .
away ,  away ,  be gone !
now, what's the business?
nay ,  pray you throw none away .
and so adieu ,  sir .
my mother stays.
here’s a good world the while .
come ,  will you go with me ?
better once than never ,  for never too late .
but you ,  o you ,  so perfect and so peerless ,  are created of every creature’s best .
friend ,  look to't .
on him, on him!
what ,  are the brothers parted ?
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
and i am sick when i look not on you.
and i another.
the bridegroom he is come already .
if every ducat in six thousand ducats were in six parts ,  and every part a ducat ,  i would not draw them , —i would have my bond .
so help me every spirit sanctified as i have spoken for you all my best and stood within the blank of his displeasure for my free speech .
seek him, titinius, whilst i go to meet the noble brutus, thrusting this report into his ears.
look behind you ,  my lord .
look to the bak'd meats, good angelica; spare not for cost.
tell me ,  thou unknown power—      he knows thy thought .
i hope the king made peace with all of us; and the compact is firm and true in me .
and lovers' absent hours, more tedious than the dial eight score times?
who’s there ?
the ears are senseless that should give us hearing to tell him his commandment is fulfill'd that rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead .
my fair rosalind ,  i come within an hour of my promise .
if she be black, and thereto have a wit, she'll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
am not i your rosalind ?
nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
ay ,  in the temple ,  in the town ,  the field ,  you do me mischief .
what services canst thou do ?
ay ,  he .
why ,  the honest men .
thou art a soul in bliss ,  but i am bound upon a wheel of fire ,  that mine own tears do scald like molten lead .
well ,  then ,  that’s the humor of ’t .
well ,  be may chance to do some good on her .
thy grace shall have it .
say not so ,  agrippa .
i have undone three tailors .
well ,  i know not what counts harsh fortune casts upon my face ,  but in my bosom shall she never come to make my heart her vassal .
cassius ,  be constant .
casca ,  you are the first that rears your hand .
where shall we meet i' th' morning ?
search ,  seek ,  and know how this foul murder comes .
how came you ,  cassio ,  by that handkerchief that was my wife’s ?
faith ,  we may put up our pipes and be gone .
woo’t weep ?
the queen shall then have courtesy ,  so she will yield us up ?
god shield i should disturb devotion !
very foul.
thou art armed ,  gloucester .
here is his majesty .
and joy comes well in such a needy time .
mercutio ,  thou consort’st with romeo .
i like thy wit well ,  in good faith .
when they do choose, they have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
the queen, my lord, is dead.
pluck down benches.
i do attend here on the general; and think it no addition, nor my wish, to have him see me woman'd.
so art thou to revenge ,  when thou shalt hear .
certain ones ,  then .
then is the world one .
it is now high sup- pertime, and the night grows to waste.
and therefore is he idle ?
give him heedful note; for i mine eyes will rivet to his face, and after we will both our judgments join in censure of his seeming.
dwell i but in the suburbs of your good pleasure ?
do not you chide; i have a thing for you.
that’s he that was othello .
and this way have you well expounded it .
i meddle with no tradesman’s matters nor women’s matters ,  but withal i am indeed ,  sir ,  a surgeon to old shoes .
and have you mercy too!
nor i ,  my lord .
but one word more— he will not be commanded .
there is no ancient gentlemen but gardeners ,  ditchers ,  and grave - makers .
we’ll have thee to a couch softer and sweeter than the lustful bed on purpose trimmed up for semiramis .
nay, had i power, i should pour the sweet milk of concord into hell, uproar the universal peace, confound all unity on earth.
you are a tame man; go!
alack ,  alack ,  edmund ,  i like not this unnatural dealing .
what ,  are you mad that you do reason so ?
do you hear, cassio?
and she goes down at twelve .
madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
if only to go warm were gorgeous ,  why ,  nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear’st ,  which scarcely keeps thee warm .
thou flea ,  thou nit ,  thou winter cricket thou !
is there more toil ?
i tell you ,  he that can lay hold of her shall have the chinks .
since my dear soul was mistress of her choice ,  and could of men distinguish her election ,  sh'hath seal'd thee for herself .
uncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now to murder, murder our solemnity?
my brother and thy uncle ,  called antonio— i pray thee ,  mark me (that a brother should be so perfidious !
i’ll not budge an inch ,  boy .
upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve, i'll visit you.
look, my lord, it comes!
perchance he will not mind me .
and he that will not follow bourbon now ,  let him go hence ,  and with his cap in hand like a base pander hold the chamber door ,  whilst by a slave ,  no gentler than my dog ,  his fairest daughter is contaminate .
what ,  wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears ?
peace!
not know me yet ?
obey thy parents ,  keep thy word’s justice ,  swear not ,  commit not with man’s sworn spouse ,  set not thy sweet heart on proud array .
nay ,  forward ,  old man .
am not i hermia?
o ,  now you weep ,  and i perceive you feel the dint of pity .
i am not stephano ,  but a cramp .
they see and smell and have their palates both for sweet and sour ,  as husbands have .
what do you think of marching to philippi presently ?
art thou some god ,  some angel ,  or some devil that makest my blood cold ,  and my hair to stare ?
neither rhyme nor reason can express how much .
know ,  sir ,  that i will not wait pinioned at your master’s court ,  nor once be chastised with the sober eye of dull octavia .
therefore no more but to the matter .
what satisfaction canst thou have tonight ?
hic et ubique ?
good hay ,  sweet hay ,  hath no fellow .
resolve yourselves apart: i'll come to you anon .
he is ready at the door: he comes, my lord.
remember’st thou any that have died on ’t ?
none but his enemies .
a good wench; give it me .
they are not ever jealous for the cause ,  but jealous for they’re jealous .
for the love of god ,  your help !
did you ne'er hear say, two may keep counsel, putting one away?
wherefore?
you have done that you should be sorry for .
why ,  how now ,  dromio .
ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads.
put this in any liquid thing you will and drink it off, and if you had the strength of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
say ,  is your tardy master now at hand ?
i do now let loose my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no fish ,  but an islander that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt .
and but one word with one of us ?
hark!
here comes a messenger .
o ,  take the sense ,  sweet ,  of my innocence !
go look after him .
and art thou chang'd ?
hie you ,  make haste ,  for it grows very late .
this bodiless creation ecstasy is very cunning in .
lo ,  yonder ,  and titinius mourning it .
well met here .
a heavy summons lies like lead upon me ,  and yet i would not sleep .
thou and thy meaner fellows your last service did worthily perform, and i must use you in such another trick.
you are welcome ,  sir ,  to cyprus .
that may be must be ,  love ,  on thursday next .
an if your wife be not a mad woman, and know how well i have deserv'd the ring, she would not hold out enemy for ever, for giving it to me.
and now ,  laertes ,  what's the news with you ?
if after every tempest come such calms, may the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
my life upon her faith !
love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind; and therefore is wing'd cupid painted blind.
in the mean time ,  against thou shalt awake ,  shall romeo by my letters know our drift; and hither shall he come; and he and i will watch thy waking ,  and that very night shall romeo bear thee hence to mantua .
or else what follows ?
hear the shrill whistle ,  which doth order give to sounds confused .
sir ,  i shall meet your wit in the career ,  an you charge it against me .
what is a man if his chief good and market of his time be but to sleep and feed ?
what said northumberland as touching richmond ?
you may do then in time .
god be with my old master .
i will do any modest office ,  my lord ,  to help my cousin to a good husband .
my gracious sovereign ,  now in devonshire ,  as i by friends am well advertisèd ,  sir edward courtney and the haughty prelate ,  bishop of exeter ,  his elder brother ,  with many more confederates are in arms .
do you like this haste ?
i am that merry wanderer of the night .
d'elbow .  ”        “ d'elbow ,  ”      “ de nick ,  ”    “ de nick .  ”    “ de chin .  ”   “ de sin .  ”
good night to everyone .
stand from the hearse .
this is a man’s invention ,  and his hand .
what ,  i say ,  my foot my tutor ?
i marry her !
i am sorry to find you thus .
if thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a more delicate way than drowning.
light !
therefore ,   go ,  clear thy crystals . —yoke - fellows in arms ,  let us to france ,  like horse - leeches ,  my boys ,  to suck ,  to suck ,  the very blood to suck .
heaven is here ,  where juliet lives; and every cat and dog and little mouse ,  every unworthy thing ,  live here in heaven and may look on her; but romeo may not .
anon ,  good nurse !
how now?
security gives way to conspiracy .
a piece of work that will make sick men whole .
that's very true, my lord.
o my love !
all men call thee fickle .
to sebastian] true, save means to live.
now heaven help him !
lives, sir.
by thee; and this thou didst return from him: that he did buffet thee and ,  in his blows ,  denied my house for his ,  me for his wife .
what is thy will with her ?
for your sake ,  jewel ,  i am glad at soul i have no other child; for thy escape would teach me tyranny ,  to hang clogs on them .
you should for that have reprehended him .
i do beseech you that i may speak with you, o, good my lord!
for lo !
my dismal scene i needs must act alone.
what?
o day and night ,  but this is wondrous strange !
no ,  alas ,  i found it and i did give ’t my husband .
if any ship put out ,  then straight away .
farewell .
this is the penthouse under which lorenzo desired us to make stand .
the air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
breathe merriman ,  the poor cur is embossed ,  and couple clowder with the deep - mouthed brach .
how now ,  my metal of india ?
stand not amaz'd .
no ,  he doth but mistake the truth totally .
when marcus brutus grows so covetous to lock such rascal counters from his friends, be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts, dash him to pieces!
she sent for you by dromio home to dinner .
but, as i said, on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen; that shall she, marry; i remember it well.
take each man’s censure but reserve thy judgment .
scout me for him at the corner the orchard like a bum - baily .
be silent .
companion ,  hence !
is ink and paper ready ?
joy ,  gentle friends ,  joy and fresh days of love accompany your hearts !
that if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty.
i’ll tell thee ,  friend ,  i am almost mad myself .
marry ,  sir ,  to bid my old master the jew to sup tonight with my new master the christian .
when it appears to you where this begins ,  turn your displeasure that way ,  for our faults can never be so equal that your love can equally move with them .
for all this same ,  i'll hide me hereabout .
our duty to your honour .
he’ll never yield to that .
and i his clerk; therefore be well advis'd how you do leave me to mine own protection.
what is the night?
pronounce it for me ,  sir ,  to all our friends ,  for my heart speaks they are welcome .
this ’greed upon to part with unhacked edges and bear back our targes undinted .
for god’s sake ,  send some other messenger .
he’s coming ,  madam; but in very strange manner .
calphurnia here ,  my wife ,  stays me at home .
he fell down in the marketplace ,  and foamed at mouth ,  and was speechless .
if the tag-rag people did not clap him and hiss him according as he pleased and displeased them, as they use to do the players in the theatre, i am no true man.
i wonder if the lion be to speak.
ay ,  lady ,  it was my word .
i would thou wert so happy by thy stay to hear true shrift.
i fear it is too choleric a meat .
i will do't ,  my lord .
i am hers .
will it never be day ?
what judgment shall i dread ,  doing no wrong ?
thou dost not mark me .
and i remember the kissing of her batler ,  and the cow’s dugs that her pretty chopped hands had milked .
i will bite my thumb at them ,  which is a disgrace to them ,  if they bear it .
i will hide me in the arbor .
hark !
but what trade art thou?
so are you ,  princes english ,  every one .
they are all welcome .
saw you anything ?
thou mayst revenge .
uncharitably with me have you dealt ,  and shamefully my hopes by you are butchered .
i fear thee not .
why then ,  god's soldier be he !
i pray you all, if you have hitherto conceal'd this sight, let it be tenable in your silence still; and whatsoever else shall hap tonight, give it an understanding, but no tongue.
and so near will i be that your best friends shall wish i had been further.
move these eyes?
go get it ready .
and i for ganymede .
why, say they are vile and false; as where's that palace where in to foul things sometimes intrude not?
be merciful ,  say ‘death’; for exile hath more terror in his look ,  much more than death .
what with a torch !
thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age .
no, by my life and soul!
he said once the devil would have him about women .
if i could bid the fifth welcome with so good a heart as i can bid the other four farewell ,  i should be glad of his approach .
that i love her ,  i feel .
i dare not drink yet, madam—by-and-by.
it is my duty, sir.
not a soul but felt a fever of the mad and played some tricks of desperation.
prithee ,  see there !
the king is mad .
away !
all that i will tell you is, that the duke hath dined.
what a pestilent knave is this same !
well ,  my good fellows ,  wait on me tonight .
not a jot more ,  my lord .
if you do free your children from the sword ,  your children’s children quits it in your age .
sweet remembrancer !
i bring no overture of war ,  no taxation of homage .
he's now in florence.
repays he my deep service with such deep contempt ?
doubt thou the stars are fire; doubt that the sun doth move; doubt truth to be a liar; but never doubt i love .
i know his soul is in heaven ,  fool .
what !
therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends ,  and there an end .
if she had been blest ,  she would never have loved the moor .
out upon her !
here, peter quince.
so i will ,  my liege ,  as i live .
now all the blessings of a glad father compass thee about!
so long ?
tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee .
i am glad that my weak words have struck but thus much show of fire from brutus .
lorenzo and his infidel?
well ,  my good lord .
thou hast amazed me .
who did strike out the light?
hold ,  for your lives !
help ,  angels .
be it so, lysander: find you out a bed, for i upon this bank will rest my head.
i am paid for ’t now .
who can impress the forest ,  bid the tree unfix his earth - bound root ?
i’ll mend it and then play— where’s the queen ?
he is defiled that draws a sword on thee.
to the best bride - bed will we ,  which by us shall blessed be; and the issue there create ever shall be fortunate .
say from whence you owe this strange intelligence, or why upon this blasted heath you stop our way with such prophetic greeting?
why do they run away ?
o grace!
i should not then ask casca what had chanced.
i will chop her into messes .
if you did ,  i care not .
o ,  be some other name !
he fights as you sing pricksong, keeps time, distance, and proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and the third in your bosom!
how's the day?
here’s cassio hurt by villains .
not when i saw't .
the messenger came on my guard ,  and at thy tent is now unloading of his mules .
thou liest.
forswear it, sight!
but that it would be double - dealing ,  sir ,  i would you could make it another .
o monstrous world !
well ,  sir ,  get you in .
well ,  let it be . — what ho ,  malvolio !
tis a fault to heaven ,  a fault against the dead ,  a fault to nature ,  to reason most absurd ,  whose common theme is death of fathers ,  and who still hath cried ,  from the first corse till he that died today ,  this must be so .
the marshal of france ,  monsieur la far .
o phoebe ,  phoebe ,  phoebe !
that's all one; you shall play it in a mask, and you may speak as small as you will.
wherefore ?
have you not read ,  roderigo ,  of some such thing ?
she had a prophesying fear of what hath come to pass .
prithee say on.
let me ask you one word in private .
thou art not conquered .
then never man was man true .
now ,  fellows ,  you are welcome .
o gentle romeo ,  if thou dost love ,  pronounce it faithfully .
never was monarch better feared and loved than is your majesty .
a trumpet without .
then have at thee ,  boy !
if any man doubt that ,  let him put me to my purgation .
angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
not dead ?
only be patient till we have appeased the multitude ,  beside themselves with fear ,  and then we will deliver you the cause why i ,  that did love caesar when i struck him ,  have thus proceeded .
i am one ,  sir ,  that comes to tell you your daughter and the moor are now making the beast with two backs .
so will i grow, so live, so die, my lord, ere i will yield my virgin patent up unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke my soul consents not to give sovereignty.
my name, dear saint, is hateful to myself, because it is an enemy to thee.
she did commend my yellow stockings of late ,  she did praise my leg being cross - gartered ,  and in this she manifests herself to my love ,  and with a kind of injunction ,  drives me to these habits of her liking .
whither wander you ?
lady, amen.
fortune and victory sit on thy helm !
see ,  whether their basest metal be not moved; they vanish tongue - tied in their guiltiness .
do thou for him stand .
methinks it is like a weasel .
should i go to church ,  and see the holy edifice of stone ,  and not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks ,  which ,  touching but my gentle vessel's side ,  would scatter all her spices on the stream ,  enrobe the roaring waters with my silks ,  and ,  in a word ,  but even now worth this ,  and now worth nothing ?
your mother .
the cords that romeo bid thee fetch ?
follow not .
you have not seen such a thing as ’tis .
swoons rather ,  for so bad a prayer as his was never yet for sleep .
i thank you, madam: give welcome to my friend.— this is the man, this is antonio, to whom i am so infinitely bound.
the worst fault you have is to be in love .
let me but move one question to your daughter ,  and by that fatherly and kindly power that you have in her ,  bid her answer truly .
read it ,  great caesar .
which ,  when i saw rehearsed ,  i must confess ,  made mine eyes water—but more merry tears the passion of loud laughter never shed .
to his father ,  that so tenderly and entirely loves him .
let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him .
i mean ,  to go ,  sir ,  to enter .
thou ,  wretched boy ,  that didst consort him here shalt with him hence .
if you prick us ,  do we not bleed ?
which of these is he ?
there's no offence, my lord.
what news ?
he had a thousand noses ,  horns whelked and waved like the enragèd sea .
grace go with you ,  sir .
i have it ,  and soundly too .
a vengeance on your crafty withered hide !
let him take thee and hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians !
i am bound by oath ,  and therefore pardon me .
i pray you ,  sirs ,  lie in my tent and sleep .
thou seest that all the grace that she hath left is that she will not add to her damnation a sin of perjury .
the very instant that i saw you did my heart fly to your service ,  there resides to make me slave to it ,  and for your sake am i this patient log - man .
a whole one ,  i .
to her ,  my lord ,  was i betroth'd ere i saw hermia .
then you live about her waist ,  or in the middle of her favours ?
husband ,  let’s follow to see the end of this ado .
honey ,  you shall be well desired in cyprus; i have found great love amongst them .
o the heavens !
ho ,  ho ,  ho !
to dover .
i dare assure you ,  sir ,  ’tis almost two ,  and ’twill be supper time ere you come there .
therefore ,  queen of all ,  katherine ,  break thy mind to me in broken english .
she has spoke what she should not ,  i am sure of that .
come on, sir.
out of doubt he is transported.
i do but keep the peace.
pray you, come in.
alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
come ,  mistress kate ,  i’ll bear you company .
what?
this is that very mab that plats the manes of horses in the night and bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs, which once untangled much misfortune bodes this is the hag, when maids lie on their backs, that presses them and learns them first to bear, making them women of good carriage.
tide life ,  'tide death ,  i come without delay .
stand to ’t .
is thy union here?
made i him king for this ?
he keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouth'd, to be last swallowed.
blister'd be thy tongue for such a wish!
so is my horse ,  octavius ,  and for that i do appoint him store of provender .
it seems not meet ,  nor wholesome to my place ,  to be produced—as ,  if i stay ,  i shall— against the moor .
call my train together . — degenerate bastard ,  i’ll not trouble thee .
alack ,  my lord ,  that fault is none of yours .
caesar!
what news among the merchants ?
well ,  brutus ,  thou art noble .
then put up your pipes in your bag, for i'll away.
but let me conjure you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with me, whether you were sent for or no.
pretty !
yes ,  by saint patrick ,  but there is ,  horatio ,  and much offense too .
are you his brother ?
sir, most heedfully.
i do beseech you, sir, trouble yourself no further.
god save you ,  sir .
stand fast together ,  lest some friend of caesar’s should chance— talk not of standing . —publius ,  good cheer .
sovereign ,  here lies the county paris slain; and romeo dead; and juliet ,  dead before ,  warm and new kill'd .
perdition catch my soul, but i do love thee!
they are incensed .
by my troth ,  he’ll yield the crow a pudding one of these days .
more validity ,  more honourable state ,  more courtship lives in carrion flies than romeo .
what is the matter ?
thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly .
o, reform it altogether!
content thee ,  gentle coz ,  let him alone .
or, rather, do i not in plainest truth tell you i do not nor i cannot love you?
would i were sleep and peace ,  so sweet to rest !
i am invisible; and i will overhear their conference .
very well .
and so far blameless proves my enterprise ,  that i have 'nointed an athenian's eyes; and so far am i glad it so did sort ,  as this their jangling i esteem a sport .
but tell not me; i know ,  antonio is sad to think upon his merchandise .
why ,  what would you ?
the prince and monsieur love !
i promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now .
i say thy husband .
let’s not consort with them .
pluck them asunder.
soft ,  by and by .
but, i pray you, let none of your people stir me; i have an exposition of sleep come upon me.
he is welcome hither.
it is the rival of my love .
farewell.
when thou dost ask me blessing ,  i’ll kneel down and ask of thee forgiveness .
is there any man has rebused your worship ?
parting is such sweet sorrow that i shall say good night till it be morrow .
ay ,  in the catalogue ye go for men ,  as hounds and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  curs ,  shoughs ,  water - rugs ,  and demi - wolves are clept all by the name of dogs .
for, sir, it is as sure as you are roderigo, were i the moor, i would not be iago.
and strength shall help afford .
a guiltless death i die .
i know you are my eldest brother ,  and in the gentle condition of blood you should so know me .
tis well i am found by you .
if we are like you in the rest ,  we will resemble you in that .
thou hadst, and more, miranda.
sweet prince ,  you learn me noble thankfulness . — there ,  leonato ,  take her back again .
madam ,  not now .
tis neither here nor there .
my best endeavours shall be done herein.
are my deserts no better ?
adieu .
was he not born of woman?
proclaim no shame when the compulsive ardour gives the charge ,  since frost itself as actively doth burn ,  and reason panders will .
would he have stolen away from sleeping hermia ?
where runn’st thou so fast ?
macbeth .
pronounce this sentence then: women may fall when there’s no strength in men .
o, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
death ,  that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail ,  ties up my tongue and will not let me speak .
tears seven times salt, burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
some heavenly power guide us out of this fearful country !
enobarbus ?
hail ,  caesar !
sit down awhile ,  and let us once again assail your ears ,  that are so fortified against our story ,  what we two nights have seen .
go softly on .
illo ,  ho ,  ho ,  my lord !
hard ,  hard . —o filthy traitor !
o ,  horrible !
i have no will to wander forth of doors, yet something leads me forth.
why should you think that i should woo in scorn ?
there is no tarrying here .
i often came where i did hear of her ,  but cannot find her .
what's the matter ,  husband ?
what do you call the play ?
the date is out of such prolixity .
i will be more jealous of thee than a barbary cock -  pigeon over his hen ,  more clamorous than a parrot against rain ,  more newfangled than an ape ,  more giddy in my desires than a monkey .
or say ,  sweet love ,  what thou desirest to eat .
have you no more to say ?
talk you of young master launcelot ?
i mock you?
i am to blame .
a fish: he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish - like smell; a kind of not -  of - the - newest poor - john .
the fold stands empty in the drownèd field ,  and crows are fatted with the murrain flock .
treason !
o mighty caesar!
let him not pass ,  but kill him rather .
the storm is up ,  and all is on the hazard .
madam, i wish it may.
i am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
you have obtained it .
i did nothing .
good morrow to you.
who brought them ?
thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime ,  the pitfall nor the gin .
you mock me ,  madam .
the competitors enter .
hero thinks surely she will die ,  for she says she will die if he love her not ,  and she will die ere she make her love known ,  and she will die if he woo her rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness .
what ,  for a counter ,  would i do but good ?
what villains have done this ?
sir ,  a whole history .
well ,  more anon . —comes the king forth ,  i pray you ?
why ,  we are still handling our ewes ,  and their fells ,  you know ,  are greasy .
will you to scone?
come your ways .
methought the billows spoke and told me of it ,  the winds did sing it to me ,  and the thunder ,  that deep and dreadful organ pipe ,  pronounced the name of prosper .
music ,  hark .
and what confederacy have you with the traitors late footed in the kingdom ?
they all do hate him as rootedly as i .
even for that i thank you; therefore ,  i pray you ,  lead me to the caskets ,  to try my fortune .
sweet lady ,  you have given me life ,  and living; for here i read for certain ,  that my ships are safely come to road .
i had no judgment when to her i swore .
a hundred then .
give him direction for this merry bond ,  and i will go and purse the ducats straight ,  see to my house left in the fearful guard of an unthrifty knave ,  and presently i will be with you .
look you pale, mistress?
how is it else the man i' the moon ?
madam, here comes my lord.
make forth, the generals would have some words.
with courtesy and with respect enough ,  but not with such familiar instances ,  nor with such free and friendly conference ,  as he hath used of old .
ay ,  and to wage this battle at pharsalia ,  where caesar fought with pompey .
are you a man?
an unauthorized kiss.
this bond doth give thee here no jot of blood .
do so .
good god, betimes remove the means that makes us strangers!
from this moment the very firstlings of my heart shall be the firstlings of my hand .
all's well .
he taught me how to know a man in love ,  in which cage of rushes i am sure you are not prisoner .
love ,  therefore ,  and tongue - tied simplicity in least speak most ,  to my capacity .
caesar, beware of brutus; take heed of cassius; come not near casca; have an eye to cinna; trust not trebonius; mark it well metellus cimber; decius brutus loves thee not; thou hast wronged caius ligarius.
i’ll go and chat with paris .
most constantly .
well ,  well .
and the grace of heaven, before, behind thee, and on every hand, enwheel thee round!
i will not budge for no man’s pleasure ,  i .
let’s call more help to have them bound again .
ah ,  luciana ,  did he tempt thee so ?
make haste ,  make haste ,  sirrah .
if you do meet horatio and marcellus ,  the rivals of my watch ,  bid them make haste .
how oft when men are at the point of death have they been merry!
he shall have merely justice and his bond .
is it e'en so?
brutus ,  and caesar: what should be in that caesar ?
she is a royal princess .
now art thou my lieutenant .
forty thousand brothers could not ,  with all their quantity of love ,  make up my sum .
pronounce .
i ,  sir ,  am dromio .
was it not yesterday we spoke together ?
cousin ,  you apprehend passing shrewdly .
is it within reason and compass?
by all the gods that romans bow before ,  i here discard my sickness !
did he take interest ?
and this man is now become a god, and cassius is a wretched creature, and must bend his body if caesar carelessly but nod on him.
where is she ?
those that macbeth hath slain .
the all - seeing sun ne'er saw her match since first the world begun .
and you all know security is mortals’ chiefest enemy.
the sooner, sweet, for you.
hark, hark!
villain ,  thou know’st not law of god nor man .
what is't o'clock?
no ,  my good lord; but ,  as you did command ,  i did repel his letters and denied his access to me .
do you not remember ,  lady ,  in your father's time ,  a venetian ,  a scholar and a soldier that came hither in company of the marquis of montferrat ?
if it were done when ’tis done ,  then ’twere well it were done quickly .
that skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once.
an eagle ,  madam ,  hath not so green ,  so quick ,  so fair an eye as paris hath .
nor would we deign him burial of his men till he disbursed at saint colme’s inch ten thousand dollars to our general use .
how can these things in me seem scorn to you, bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true?
who shall bar me from them ?
sola !
haste me to know't, that i, with wings as swift as meditation or the thoughts of love, may sweep to my revenge.
then bring me to their sights .
i have sent to bid cassio come speak with you.
this is thy negligence.
which in his dearest need will fly from him .
that way the noise is .
tis bitter cold, and i am sick at heart.
these couchings and these lowly courtesies might fire the blood of ordinary men and turn preordinance and first decree into the law of children .
my friend ,  thy husband ,  honest ,  honest iago .
how 'strangely' ?
i would you had won the fleece that he hath lost!
what he hath lost ,  noble macbeth hath won .
let us toward the king .
but what is the sport ,  monsieur ,  that the ladies have lost ?
sir ,  can you tell where he bestows himself ?
i shall forget ,  to have thee still stand there ,  remembering how i love thy company .
she that herself will sliver and disbranch from her material sap perforce must wither and come to deadly use .
sir ,  march is wasted fifteen days .
i have drunk but one cup tonight ,  and that was craftily qualified too ,  and behold what innovation it makes here .
go .
well, to our work alive.
did you see him ?
i do entreat your grace to pardon me .
may not one speak ?
i gave my love a ring, and made him swear never to part with it; and here he stands,— i dare be sworn for him he would not leave it, nor pluck it from his finger, for the wealth that the world masters.
my lord, it shall be done.
if echo were as fleet ,  i would esteem him worth a dozen such .
o, the blood is spill'd of my dear kinsman!
there let him sink ,  and be the seas on him !
this world is not for aye ,  nor 'tis not strange that even our loves should with our fortunes change; for 'tis a question left us yet to prove ,  whether love lead fortune ,  or else fortune love .
my best endeavours shall be done herein .
is't possible ?
meet we the medicine of the sickly weal ,  and with him pour we ,  in our country's purge ,  each drop of us .
lovers and madmen have such seething brains, such shaping fantasies, that apprehend more than cool reason ever comprehends.
then he is dead?
let none presume to wear an undeservèd dignity .
thus hath the course of justice whirled about and left thee but a very prey to time ,  having no more but thought of what thou wast to torture thee the more ,  being what thou art .
stand back .
sir ,  i cannot .
i only speak right on .
it is no hidden virtue in him .
i have made bold, iago, to send in to your wife.
i pray you ,  good bassanio ,  let me know it; and ,  if it stand ,  as you yourself still do ,  within the eye of honour ,  be assur'd ,  my purse ,  my person ,  my extremest means ,  lie all unlock'd to your occasions .
come ,  trusty sword .
good morrow, father.
by heaven ,  i’ll have ’t .
harpier cries ,   “ 'tis time ,  ’tis time .  ”  round about the cauldron go ,  in the poisoned entrails throw .
an i may hide my face ,  let me play thisbe too .
madam ,  your mother craves a word with you .
i will not .
you said the enemy would not come down but keep the hills and upper regions .
most gracious duke ,  to my unfolding lend your prosperous ear and let me find a charter in your voice ,  t' assist my simpleness .
i have no hope that he's undrowned.
in cunning i must draw my sword upon you .
let me see .
if in thy wisdom thou canst give no help ,  do thou but call my resolution wise ,  and with this knife i’ll help it presently .
when that’s gone ,  he shall drink naught but brine ,  for i’ll not show him where the quick freshes are .
well praised !
i pray you ,  after the lieutenant; go .
do you not hear ,  fellows ?
some grief shows much of love; but much of grief shows still some want of wit .
no ,  no ,  the bell .
it hath not appeared .
forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep; and ,  as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm ,  your bedded hairs ,  like life in excrements ,  start up and stand on end .
then ,  by myself—      thyself is self - misused .
come ,  stir ,  stir ,  stir !
set your heart at rest .
and where’s cordelia ? — seest thou this object ,  kent ?
what is decreed must be ,  and be this so .
go you with me and i will use your skill . — good cousin ,  have a care this busy time .
admired miranda!
to be now a sensible man ,  by and by a fool ,  and presently a beast !
how now ,  spirit !
make haste ,  lest mine be about your ears ere it be out .
i would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys .
sister ,  you know he promised me a chain .
the morn is fair .
no, cassius, for the eye sees not itself but by reflection, by some other things.
this must be known; which, being kept close, might move more grief to hide than hate to utter love.
i'll to my truckle - bed; this field - bed is too cold for me to sleep .
why ,  rosalind !
thee aloud  “ england is thine ,  ireland is thine ,  france is thine ,  and harry plantagenet is thine ,  ”  who ,  though i speak it before his face ,  if he be not fellow with the best king ,  thou shalt find the best king of good fellows .
very well .
had we fought ,  i doubt we should have been too young for them .
your honor wins bad humors .
what say'st thou, noble heart?
those friends thou hast ,  and their adoption tried ,  grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel; but do not dull thy palm with entertainment of each new - hatch'd ,  unfledged comrade .
look who comes here .
this lodovico is a proper man.
my master’s mind .
o, balmy breath, that dost almost persuade justice to break her sword!
well ,  gentlemen ,  i am thus resolved: on sunday next ,  you know my daughter katherina is to be married .
his speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired ,  but all disordered .
thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate, but certain issue strokes must arbitrate; towards which, advance the war.
never ,  my lord .
i would she had bestowed this dotage on me .
her father and myself, lawful espials, will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen, we may of their encounter frankly judge and gather by him, as he is behaved, if't be the affliction of his love or no, that thus he suffers for.
speak .
find the girl !
younger than you, here in verona, ladies of esteem, are made already mothers.
what ,  is antonio here ?
therefore lay bare your bosom .
my dear othello !
let me comply with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players—which, i tell you, must show fairly outwards—should more appear like entertainment than yours.
go .
an excellent courtesy !
thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers .
